Durban - AN award-winning Durban film-maker received the Man of Substance 2020 Exemplary Lifetime Achievement Award during a virtual ceremony in Singapore on Thursday. The event coincided with International Men’s Day on November 19, which celebrates the positive value men bring to the world, their families and communities. Eubulus Timothy, who is also a dental surgeon, said he was surprised but grateful for the acknowledgement. Timothy said his passion for film started as a child. “When I was 10, my dad bought an 8mm camera and I was hooked. By age 11, I produced my first film on gangsters, called Young Destroyers.” He said he wanted to know more about the film industry and, while growing up, the closest he could get was to work at the film library in the Durban CBD. “Sanjeev Singh, who is now a film producer, and I used to go to the film library every day after school for two years. Anant Singh, who is also a film producer, used to work in the library and he often taught us about the industry.” In 1975, Timothy moved to London where he finished school. He studied dentistry in India and, in 1986, returned to South Africa and practised as a dentist in Port Elizabeth and Cape Town. But he never gave up on his dream of making movies. “When Anant released his film, The Stick at the Cannes Film Festival, I decided to attend. That’s where I met Shan Moodley. Shan, who went on to become the the founding chairperson of the National Film and Video Foundation, taught me everything I know about television. He is probably one of the best producers in the country. We formed a bond and we are working on the movie, The Cane Cutter, an 1860s love story.” Timothy directed the feature film Othello and produced Cape Night Live which introduced comedian Mark Lottering to South African television audiences. He also started a performance school in Cape Town. Among his students He also spent a few months in Los Angeles working with TV drama producers. “I worked on productions like Grey's Anatomy, Crossing Jordan and Monk. I trained as a director under Randy Zisk and Allan Arkush.” While in LA, Timothy obtained a diploma in directing and cinematography from the Los Angeles City College Film School. When he returned to South Africa, he continued to practise as a dental surgeon focusing on facial and dental aesthetics. He obtained post-graduate diplomas in implantology and aesthetics from the University of the Western Cape. While lecturing at the same university, he released the movie Deep End about a woman’s dream to surf without upsetting her Indian family. It won the Hartley-Merrill Screenwriting Award in Hollywood, best screenplay at the South African International Academy and the best picture and best director honours at the Simon Sabela Film and TV Awards. Timothy, the treasurer of the Writer’s Guild of South Africa, is working on a production based on a book by playwright John Osborne, Look Back in Anger. “I was offered to remake the movie and accepted it but on condition that it is set in Durban and the focus is on an Indian family. We need to celebrate Indians in South Africa given that we just marked 160 years of the arrival of indentured Indians and, if we look at the work done by some, we can see how they have improved and shifted South Africa.” He has also worked with embassies and consulates of countries around the world, one of which was Singapore for the documentary, 10 Years of Democracy. In recent years, he has had closer ties with Singapore but did not expect to be given a lifetime achievement award. “During Covid-19, I posted clips on social media, encouraging people to keep positive and not to let depression get the better of them. These clips caught the attention of people in Singapore. It’s because of that and the work that I have done over the years, that I was chosen for the award.” POST