Durban - A GROUP of brides will not be able to wear their dream gowns on their wedding day. This was after a Gauteng-based bridal company closed, claiming it was unable to recover from the country’s current economic state. The women have since sought legal advice from Narisha Hansraj, a Durban attorney. She said the women had collectively paid close to R500 000 for their bridal gowns. It is alleged that some of the brides had paid deposits of up to R20 000 to Eurobrides for designer dresses. Others paid the full amount and expected to collect the dresses closer to their wedding days. However, in October, brides said they received an email from Eurobride that it was unable to recover financially and had to close. The brides claimed they did not get feedback when they tried to get information about their dresses or refunds. A Facebook page, Eurobride Scam, was later created by Sharne Pillay. A WhatsApp group was also created by the brides. Pillay, 25, a marketing executive, of Sandton, is still waiting for a refund. Though her wedding was scheduled for December 17 next year, she decided to start trying on wedding dresses. In August, her first stop was Eurobride in Bryanston. The store was having a 50% off month-end sale. “I tried on a few dresses but there was one I really liked. I was told it was an exclusive designer piece, made by the same designer who dresses Cardi B and Beyoncé. It retailed for R50 000. The sale price was R25 000.” Pillay decided to rent the dress which cost R10 000. This required an upfront payment. “I was advised that I would be able to get a full refund (of R10 000) if I notified them two months before the wedding day.” However, on September 1 she had a change of mind and emailed Eurobride for a refund. She said she did not receive feedback. On October 1, she made her parents and lawyers call the store, and she finally received a response. Pillay said the company said it could only issue an in-store credit. Pillay then created the Facebook page, Eurobride Scam, and other women spoke of their struggles with the company. “This was supposed to be a happy time but now it is bitter-sweet. I’ve become overly cautious and paranoid when it comes to paying suppliers.” Claudia van der Westhuizen, a bride from Durban, is waiting for a refund of R10 600. Last June, she travelled to Johannesburg to try on dresses at Eurobride. “I tried on four dresses and eventually opted for a strapless, beaded mermaid dress with a lace train. The owner told me the dress was an Amethyst design by an Italian designer.” It cost R24 000 but Van der Westhuizen needed to pay R12 000 upfront to rent. She, however, paid R10 600. Since the lockdown she has on numerous occasions, tried to obtain a refund. Hansraj has issued the company with a letter of demand. She said she was contacted on October 21 and, of the 50 brides, around 30 have decided to pursue legal action. Hansraj said some of the brides paid the full amount for dresses they had not received and others paid holding deposits. She said those who were given their dresses were later allegedly told that these needed to be laundered and had to be returned. Hansraj said that to date, the dresses had not been given back. “There are no acceptable reasons for the conduct on the part of Eurobride. My offices will proceed with a civil litigation against them.” Hansraj said Eurobride were given 10 days to respond. Eurobride did not comment at the time of publication. POST