Durban - TEACHER unions have welcomed the Basic Education employment initiative to employ 30 000 youth to work as education assistants and general school assistants, as part of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s presidential Employment Stimulus Programme. The Department of Basic Education on Tuesday said it aimed at creating 20 000 employment opportunities for education assistants and 100 000 opportunities for general school assistants. This initiative sought to address the Covid-19 academic disruptions, as well as addressing some of the lingering systematic educational challenges. Education assistants will support teachers in the classroom and provide extra support to pupils, while the general schools assistants will help schools to comply with Covid-19 protocols and ensure that teaching and learning takes place in a safe, secure and hygienic environment. The programme would target youth between the ages of 18 and 35, to be recruited from the school community and would start working at schools around the country from December 1. The National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of SA (Naptosa) welcomed the initiative as something that would benefit schools and the unemployed youth. Naptosa provincial spokesperson Thirona Moodley said they looked forward to seeing the programme successfully implemented. “Teachers currently have large class sizes and a teacher assistant will be of great assistance. During the pandemic, schools struggled with limited cleaners to keep schools Covid-19 compliant, especially the schools that could not afford to employ additional cleaners.” National Teachers Union (Natu) secretary Cynthia Barnes said many unemployed youth would get an opportunity through the programme to earn money to further their studies, while teachers would get the assistance they needed in the classroom and in the general keeping of their school. “Natu hopes that the initiative would continue, as teachers are desperate for assistants in the classroom and many schools in desperate need for general assistants.” Recruitment will take place at community level, with schools required to prioritise candidates living near the school. The department has partnered with Harambee Youth Employment Accelerator to digitise the recruitment process across provinces. Candidates will be able to apply via SAYouth.mobi. Daily News 