Durban - THIS year has been the most bleak for many people in recent history, and not just for the province, but for the whole of South Africa and the rest of the world. KwaZulu-Natal’s economy remains battered by the Covid-19 pandemic, causing massive job losses, retrenchments, hunger and hopelessness. The provincial finance department has pronounced some relief programmes to restore dignity to its more than 11 million residents yesterday. During the second adjustments budget at the provincial legislature, MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube announced that her department was funding more than R300 million worth of programmes under the Provincial Economic Recovery Plan. The province’s economy has reportedly contracted by about R30 billion in the wake of Covid-19, affecting all sectors, with wholesale, manufacturing and retail being among the hardest hit. “Our people have endured great pain and suffering during this period of uncertainty, especially in their socio-economic life. The lockdown measures succeeded in slowing down the spread of the virus but they have also disrupted business activities in many sectors, widened inequality, disturbed education and dented confidence in the future,” Dube-Ncube said. She said early this year, the provincial executive council had “extensive engagements” with the private sector in preparation for this recovery fund. “All departments and public entities were given an opportunity to present their requests for funding from this Recovery Fund, but these had to be part of the projects identified in the Provincial Economic Recovery Plan, and also had to be accompanied by a detailed submission or business plan. “Provincial treasury developed a set of criteria against which each of these proposals were scored, with the minimum to be considered for funding being set at 80 percent. The criteria against which all requests were measured, included providing evidence that the proposal was clearly identified as a provincial priority by the provincial executive council, that the proposal is clearly identifiable within the approved Provincial Economic Recovery Plan, will the proposal has a substantial longterm impact on economic growth and/ or social equity, job creation and equitable distribution of wealth within the KZN economy, has an impact study been done on the outcome of the proposal if it were to be funded, among others.” She said last Friday’s downgrade of South Africa by two ratings agencies underscored the urgency of getting the country’s economic disposition back on track amid the Covid-19 turbulence. “The economic implications of the crisis has been extensive and will be realised for the foreseeable future. Overall, the global economic growth is projected to contract by 4.4 percent this year before expanding to 5.2 percent in 2021.” Recovery plan projects • The livestock (beef and goat) intervention - R66.5 million allocated over two years.  The detailed farm business plans show that 119 jobs will be created. • The Food Security programme - R59m allocated over two years. • The Mechanisation programme - R10m in 2020/21. • Informal economy infrastructure development - R14.5m in 2020/21. • Operation Vula - R30m over two years to support and promote local economic development and local small scale industries. • The River Valley Farms CC falls under the Agri-business Development Agency (ADA) - R8.3m allocated over two years. The project will provide for the completion of a pack house, a pasteurising machine and to establish an additional 4ha of shade net for the vegetable farm. • Road infrastructure maintenance under Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife - R51m over two years. • SMME Covid-19 Support under the Ithala Development Finance Corporation - R60m in 2020/21. • KwaXolo Caves Precinct adventure tourism facilities - R650 000 in 2020/21 Daily News