Durban – THE Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court heard on Wednesday the Phoenix man accused of killing his estranged wife and burning her in her car at Molweni Cemetery allegedly confessed to the murder after his arrest. Khulukazi Amanda Ndlovu, 38, went missing in May. She left her flat in Caneside, Phoenix, where she rented after separating from her husband, Sifiso Professor Ndlovu. She was driving her white Kia Picanto. Her husband faces charges of murder, defeating the ends of justice, kidnapping and violating lockdown rules. In opposing bail, investigating officer Captain Thokozani Dlamini told the court that after he collected the evidence, including the cellphone and tracker evidence that placed Ndlovu at the murder scene, he arrested Ndlovu and took him to Inanda police station. He said Ndlovu, after being interrogated and made aware of the incriminating evidence, broke down and cried, confessing to the murder. “He first denied everything. It took us three hours explaining to him how we believed he was involved in the murder of his wife. He was emotional. He started crying,” said Dlamini. Ndlovu had apparently told the police he had been overwhelmed with jealousy and said they had been married for 14 years. Dlamini said hearsay reports were that Ndlovu had opened a case of his missing wife. “He was detained as the alleged suspect for the investigation. He was released within 48 hours as there was not enough evidence against him.” Dlamini said the missing person’s case was changed to a murder investigation after Khulukazi’s burnt car was found with human remains inside. “The car was found after a cemetery security guard reported a burnt car at the cemetery. Experts from the fire Investigation Unit from eManzimtoti, the Dog Unit and other units were involved in the investigation.” He said the car belonged to a Mr Mbonambi, Khulukazi’s boyfriend, but was used by Khulukazi. Dlamini had also established that Khulukazi and Ndlovu were separated. “We then had to establish who the human remains found in the car belonged to. Due to the lockdown, the results of the forensic analysis were delayed. Eventually, they came back confirming that the remains belonged to Khulukazi,” said Dlamini. He said part of his investigation was to obtain cellphone records which were sent for analysis. Dlamini believed Khulukazi was killed elsewhere and burnt inside her car at Molweni Cemetery. He said while all of this was happening, Ndlovu’s phone was not completely switched off as his cellphone data was on. He said the car tracker and the cellphone evidence had linked him to the murder together with another person who is yet to be arrested. “The cellphone evidence placed him in Inanda and at Emachobeni.” He then approached the court for a warrant of arrest. Dlamini said that he had established that Khulukazi had opened domestic violence cases against her husband and some were withdrawn. He said there was also an active protection order granted by the Verulam Magistrate’s Court. He asked the court to consider the petition submitted to the court by the Inanda, KwaMashu and Phoenix community against Ndlovu being granted bail. The bail application continues. Daily News 