Durban - THERE are questions surrounding the death of 4-year-old Armaan Kassim who fell out of a window of a third-floor flat in Verulam. He had just moved into the home after his mother married a few weeks ago. They shared the flat with her new husband’s family. Captain Nqobile Gwala, a provincial police spokesperson, said: “It is alleged at 10.30am on Monday, a 4-year-old boy fell from the third floor while at his home on Ireland Street in Verulam. He sustained head injuries and was rushed to hospital where he died. The matter is still under investigation.” At this stage police have opened an inquest docket. The private security company Reaction Unit South Africa said it had been called to the scene by a caller who said that during a domestic dispute a child had been thrown out of the window. Prem Balram, a spokesperson, said security guards and paramedics from the company met neighbours who claimed the child had been thrown out of the window during the dispute between the mother and stepfather. Balram said by the time they got to the scene the child had already been taken to hospital in a private vehicle by the stepfather. Now the child’s biological father, Waheed Khan, and his family want a full investigation. Khan’s wife, Zakeera said: “Nothing is making sense. We want answers as to how it is possible that a child could fall through a window? Who was watching over him? Was he left alone? How did he reach the window?” Zakeera said they found out about the incident by chance when Khan’s father went to meet the child’s maternal grandfather because they were being denied contact with the child. “For the past three weeks, my husband and family have not had any contact with Armaan. We were told the mother had married and moved from the Durban town centre to Verulam. “My husband had messaged her several times during this period to find out when he could spend time with Armaan. “They had previously arranged to have supervised visits on Saturdays. But my husband had not seen his son for the last three weeks. “About a week or so ago the child’s mother told my husband that if he wanted to see Armaan, he would need to go to court. “My husband agreed and asked for her address so that court papers could be sent but there was no response.” Zakeera said that on Monday, her father-in-law went to see Armaan’s maternal grandfather at his business in the Durban CBD to enquire about an address. “When he got there, the employees asked my father-in-law if he was aware of what had happened to Armaan. He then informed us. “We tried to call Armaan’s mother but could not get through. We then contacted Armaan’s maternal grandfather. He said the child fell through the window and was taken to uMhlanga Hospital.” Zakeera said when they arrived at the hospital, the maternal grandfather was present but not the child’s mother. “Armaan had already passed away and was going to be moved to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital. “His mother was still not present and my husband tried to call her as he needed Armaan’s birth certificate so that the body could be released. “She only arrived after 9pm. When my husband asked her what had happened, she said that Armaan had been sleeping in the room and she was in the kitchen. She claimed when she went into his room he was not there. She went looking for him and found him outside on the ground.” Zakeera said they were aware of the claims that there had been an argument between the child’s mother and her husband. “We want these allegations to be investigated fully. Armaan was a sweet little boy. He was loved by his father and his entire family. They were fighting to have an opportunity to spend time with him and now they have been robbed of that. We just want the truth.” Several attempts were made to contact Armaan’s maternal family for comment but were unsuccessful. Armaan’s funeral was held at the Phoenix Muslim Cemetery. He was buried at the Dayal Road Muslim Cemetery in Clairwood on Tuesday afternoon. POST