Durban – A NUMBER of multimillion-rand low-cost housing projects approved by eThekwini Municipality for various areas around the city as early as 1996 never got off the ground, despite there being an R82.7 million budget that was approved and paid for in the Lower Thornwood, Itshelimnyama and Klaarwater areas in Durban to build 2 150 houses for the poor. The Daily News is in possession of an oversight report by a multi-party delegation from the provincial legislature that reveals eThekwini was lagging behind in the provision of housing due to a number of factors, including the influx of people into the metro. The report found the R82.7m allocated in 1996 has since disappeared from the City’s coffers. According to the SA Inflation Calculator, the value of R82.7m in 1996 would be R324m at the current rand value. A total of R82 760 139.98 was approved for clusters of 825 523 and 802 housing units for the three areas, respectively. “There are projects that were approved as early as 1996 in the Lower Thornwood, Itshelimnyama and Klaarwater areas but have not been delivered to date. “It is not clear whether eThekwini Municipality has monitoring mechanisms on the delivery of housing projects or not, as some projects have had budgets allocated and included in the municipality projects’ prioritisation list, but they never got implemented,” reads the report. The report noted the housing shortage  in eThekwini remained a serious problem. Members of the public mentioned that where social housing projects had been implemented and completed, some of those houses remained without electricity connections and running water for years. Some of the houses were not even fitted with sewerage systems, according to the report. “Serious intervention is required to ensure that the communities benefit from housing developments planned by the municipality. “The need for proper housing is quickly becoming a matter of urgency, especially with an ever-increasing population that is characterised by informal settlements and a lack of living space,” the report states. Opposition parties in eThekwini want to know where the money went and the cause of delays. “This is nonsense. It can’t be correct that approved and funded projects from 1996 are delayed by so many years. They (municipality) should tell the public where the money has gone. “According to my knowledge, we never had reports on these projects in the executive committee (exco). What have they done with the money if the houses are not there? This should not end here, the provincial government needs to investigate this matter,” said IFP exco member Mdu Nkosi.  Municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said projects of this magnitude would always be characterised by numerous challenges, and they did not interpret this as a failure because the City has made “tremendous strides” in ensuring the projects were implemented. “It should be kept in mind that in projects of this nature there are processes that need to be followed to ensure that we do not endanger the lives of the beneficiaries of houses. These, among others, are geotech and traffic impact assessments, preliminary layout and preliminary engineering designs that had to be concluded before the projects could begin. Reports have been compiled and we are awaiting approval. These happen to take a bit of time and may sometimes be beyond our control. We are, however, confident that the projects will begin soon and our residents can finally have the basic need of shelter met,” Mayisela said. He said in some cases projects had to be amended and more units added due to a growth in the number of beneficiaries. “For example, the Itshelimnyama project began with 549 housing units. However, this had to be increased to 802 units. This impacted negatively upon the layout, which had to be changed and approved. “The budgets are still available and will be used for the developments once all processes have been completed,” he said. DA MPL and spokesperson for human settlements Martin Meyer said he would submit questions to MEC Peggy Nkonyeni to get all the information about these projects. Daily News