Durban - GRUESOME and traumatic cases of gender-based violence and femicide (GBVF) haunt the Hammarsdale area. Details of several more murders surfaced after the body of Snegugu Linda, 19, was found along a pathway in Woody Glen on Sunday. A woman who was allegedly raped and cut open was buried on Wednesday. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Mpumalanga police were investigating a murder case after the body of a burnt woman was found in a ditch, also in the Woody Glen area, on October 20. The matter was still under investigation and DNA samples had been taken for analysis. Nomvuselelo Ngcobo, 31, went missing on the day she learned about the death of her aunt on October 17. The Ngcobo family were planning a funeral and did not pay attention to the body that was found. Instead, they wondered why she had ignored their phone calls and did not return home to help with the funeral arrangements. Colleagues had also told the family Nomvuselelo had been seen at work. Ngcobo’s sister Nkosingiphile, 28, said when she reported her sister missing, she learned that the woman who was found dead had a pair of spectacles near her. The woman was found a few houses from where Nomvuselelo lived with her mother, Zanele. “I asked to view her body. I saw her foot and fought back tears. I saw her structure and I told myself that this was my mother’s child. I also recognised a piece of her green jersey,” said Nkosingiphile. She was asked to write an affidavit, listing the reasons why she believed it was her sister. “I hope the Hammarsdale community, police and councillors can do something. People are killed and no one says anything about it,” said Ngcobo. Ward councillor Philani Hlengwa said there had been many incidents of GBVF in Hammarsdale in recent months. He said he remembered four cases, and two were from the same area, Woody Glen. “The community thinks these cases might be linked. They believe the murders could have been committed by the same person or people.” Hlengwa said the community were afraid but there were plans to call a meeting to address them. Department of Social Development spokesperson Mhlabunzima Memela said they were very disturbed that women and children continued to be killed. He said an area social worker had conducted a home visit for the Linda family. “The incidents at Hammarsdale indicate that we have a serious challenge in that township. People seem to have no respect for human life,” said Memela. “The department will be moving in this area to engage communities to report such horrific incidents. Daily News