Durban - Businessman Thoshan Panday and former top cops Colonel Navin Madhoe, Ashwin Narainpershad and former provincial Police Commissioner Mmamonye Ngobeni appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday where they expected to receive indictments to appear before the Durban High Court. When no indictment was forthcoming, the accuseds’ lawyers called for the matter to be struck off the roll. Jimmy Howse SC, who represented Panday, said the State had had 10 years to prepare and conclude its investigations, and yet there was still no indictment. “The Independent Directorate (ID) must get their house in order as there was no charge sheet presented to clients,” Howse said. He questioned how his client could be charged before he was arrested. “We made it very clear from the outset that this is a witch-hunt,” he told the Daily News. Panday has since denied all the allegations against him, calling them baseless. Ravindra Maniklall, who represented Madhoe and Ngobeni, said Ngobeni was brought before court unconstitutionally. He said his clients had retired from the SAPS and were unemployed. They had no income to come to court and have it postponed. “It is having a negative effect on their lives. We know there are volumes of material involved. We want to get to trial as quickly as possible,” he said. ID prosecutor Talita Louw said they applied to the National Director of Public Prosecutions, advocate Shamila Batohi for a racketeering authorisation (certificate). She asked magistrate Vanitha Armu to adjourn the case for four weeks, much to the dismay of the defence attorneys. Louw said the reason was because of two aspects that came to Batohi’s knowledge. “There was a letter or correspondence addressed to advocate Batohi from advocate Moipone Noko, former KZN Director of Public Prosecutions). Certain submissions mentioned are relevant to the case. We were requested to answer to certain submissions made. It relates to Ngobeni. These aspects must be fully dealt with by Batohi before she makes a final decision to sign the indictment. I do not know the full contents of the letter,” Louw said. The letter Louw referred to was by Noko and directed to all NPA staff including Batohi. The 57-page document revealed why she prosecuted former provincial Hawks head Johan Booysen and let the four accused walk free. Referring to the four in her letter, Noko said the police abused their authority and tried by any means necessary to illegally nail Panday. The letter also revealed how three prosecutors had declined to prosecute the case as there was insufficient evidence. “I viewed this unfairness as intentional injustice. I mentioned this in my reasons that there appear to be agendas among the parties and scores to be settled and, unfortunately, we (the prosecution) appear to be used,” wrote Noko. The magistrate granted the adjournment, saying the matter was on the roll for five weeks and that this was the first adjournment the State sought. The adjournment was for indictments to be served and if it is issued, the racketeering certificate. The ID applied for a racketeering certificate in connection with the KwaZulu-Natal police services’ Fifa World Cup accommodation fraud. Narainpershad was brought into court in a wheelchair. Bilal Malani said his client had gout and underwent surgery to his leg. He was discharged from hospital last Tuesday. Malani said Narainpershad was now faced with health-care bills and the cost of attending court and said the delay was prejudicing Narianpershad financially. Daily News