Durban - OPPOSITION parties in the eThekwini Municipality have called for discipline and respect when dealing with council matters. This was after the IFP called on council Speaker Weziwe Thusi to call off a full council meeting yesterday, after ANC councillors failed to arrive on time. The Daily News understands that among the issues to be decided on was city manager Sipho Nzuza’s application for special leave after his court appearance for allegedly violating his bail conditions. Both meetings, the executive committee (Exco) and full council, were held behind closed doors at the Durban ICC yesterday. IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi claimed that the “lack of discipline” by councillors of the ruling party was why the council meeting was called off. “After Exco met, we went into caucuses and immediately after that we were supposed to be in full council, where some decisions on issues raised in Exco had to be taken. Unfortunately, the quorum could not meet as ANC councillors remained locked in their caucus. That’s why we decided to call on the Speaker to call off the meeting. We had waited for more than 30 minutes. Both our meetings yesterday were in-committees so I can’t be discussing the agenda,” said Nkosi. It is understood that the report was to approve Nzuza’s leave application and the request for Exco to recommend that the council appoint an acting city manager in Nzuza’s absence. Nzuza returned to work towards the end of September when his special leave had expired. Currently, he is facing criminal charges and is out on R50 000 bail in a R430 million tender fraud case, in the city’s Durban Solid Waste unit, along with his co-accused, including former mayor Zandile Gumede. Two of his bail conditions were amended at his recent court appearance. He is prohibited from involvement with disciplinary processes and with supply chain management (SCM) matters. Nzuza said he heard rumours that yesterday’s full council meeting did not sit. “This delay does put me at risk. I need to delegate powers to someone who will handle all the SCM matters. I haven’t heard from the employer about my application. I’m still at work but it’s best that I stay away lest I’m found to be violating my bail conditions,” said Nzuza. Mayoral spokesperson Mluleki Mntungwa said the meeting was in-committee, and that he would find out the reasons why it was called off. The DA’s Nicole Graham said: “It’s completely ridiculous that the ANC could not get their house in order. We paid for the venue at the ICC and there was lunch and security installations that were also paid for. This delay has left the city in limbo. It is obvious that there are divisions within the party in the city.” She said it cost R400 000 per day for venues at the ICC, excluding funds for catering and security installations. Daily News