Durban - STANDING with his hands crossed and head down, Navin Chanderlal stood motionless as he was found guilty of murdering his wife, Vathaniagee “Jennifer” Pillay. A few hours later, the 54-year-old showed no expression as he was sentenced to 18 years imprisonment by a judge sitting in the Durban High Court. Five of the 18 years were suspended on condition Chanderlal does not commit murder again during this period. It means he will spend the next 13 years in jail, including his 55th birthday later this month. Chanderlal, who is unemployed, was found guilty of manually strangling the 65-year-old retired nurse and community activist at their home on December 24, 2018. The mother of two was found lying beside the bathtub in their Silverglen home. He was arrested two weeks later. It emerged in court that Chanderlal met Pillay when her two children were aged 5 and 3. (Their father had died.) They married in 2003 so they could live together in Dubai, where Pillay had a job. More recently, Pillay decided to divorce Chanderlal. She planned to sell the Silverglen house and move overseas to spend time with her children. Her son Gino lives in the UK and her daughter Carynne in Australia. The State argued that Chanderlal was unhappy about the divorce and decided to kill Pillay. According to a pathologist, he strangled her. During the trial, the State called 15 witnesses. A 16th witness was called by Judge Graham Lopes after both the State and defence had closed their case. The witness, Brandon Joubert, is a technician subcontracted to Blue Security, a private security firm. He testified that on December 27, he was called to the Pillays house in Silverglen to change the user codes for the alarm. Pillay’s relatives had requested this. To do so, he closed all the doors and windows and activated the alarm. He testified that if a door or window was open, the alarm could not be activated. Furthermore, a flashing light on the keypad would indicate which window or door was open. He testified the alarm was in working condition. Joubert’s evidence was in response to a claim that Chanderlal made during his evidence in chief. He said that when he woke up and went looking for Pillay, he noticed the sliding door was open. He testified that he subsequently found her in the bathroom and her body felt cold. Chanderlal denied he killed Pillay and under cross-examination said he believed someone else could have done so. However, Keith Supersad, a State witness who works as a technician from Blue Security, testified that the zone covering the sliding door had been armed, but it did not go off. In delivering his judgment, Judge Lopes said the evidence of the State witnesses was “honest and given in a forthright manner”. “I don’t believe any of the witnesses’ intention was to colour their evidence and advance the State’s case.” However, according to Judge Lopes, Chanderlal tried to tailor his evidence with his not-guilty plea. He said he did not believe Chanderlal’s evidence that the sliding door had been opened. “From the evidence of the technician, it was simply not possible for the door to be open. Mr Chanderlal tried to create the impression the door was open but did not realise the alarm contact was on the door and not the sliding gate.” During mitigation of sentence, attorney Teslyn David, of Chris Gounden Incorporated, said Chanderlal was not in good health as he suffered with hypertension and gastric reflux. She said Chanderlal had been an active member in the community prior to his ill health and had not derived any benefit from Pillay’s death. Pillay’s sister-in-law testified in aggravation of sentence. Fathima Perumal said Pillay was a hard-working woman. “She started working at a very young age and excelled when she joined the nursing fraternity, obtaining her Master’s degree in nursing science. “She also encouraged her family to pursue degrees. To her, education was very important.” Perumal said Pillay looked forward to being a grandmother. “She would always ask the children to give her grandchildren. After the birth of her first grandson, she was so excited. It breaks my heart that she will never know her second grandson. These would have been the best years of her life, with her grandchildren.” Senior State advocate Krishen Shah said Pillay was best described as a “mighty tree” that had left an indelible mark on the lives of her family. He said she had been robbed of enjoying the twilight years of her life. Shah said gender-based violence was a concern in a society that already had high levels of violence. He added that Chanderlal failed to take the court into his confidence. “He did not tell the court what happened. While we cannot speculate, he was left in a situation where his wife was packing up and leaving him, abandoning him, so he killed her. “She died of manual strangulation. During those four minutes he was up-close and personal. He would look into her eyes. He had sufficient time to reflect and stop.” After the sentence, Pillay’s children thanked advocate Shah and Detective Warrant Officer Kevin Nair, of Bayview SAPS, for their professionalism and expertise. Her son Gino said: “They were able to get us the best possible outcome and ensured justice was served. We are also thankful for my aunt, Fathima Perumal, for all her support throughout this trying time and for being our pillar of strength.” Gino’s sister Carynne said: “No outcome could ever bring back my mother or reverse what this has done to our family. I would, however, like to share my heartfelt gratitude and appreciation for the tireless work done to ensure a successful result. “I am equally thankful for the manner in which the judge worked as the guardian of the law in this matter.” Chanderlal will serve his sentence at Westville Prison. POST