Durban - AT LEAST three advocates had declined to prosecute Durban businessman Thoshan Panday on charges of fraud and corruption relating to the 2010 World Cup tender for accommodation. This startling revelation was revealed after advocate Moipone Noko, former KZN Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) who has since been posted to the North West, wrote a scathing letter to all her NPA colleagues explaining her reason for not prosecuting Panday. The others are Tumetsi Letsholo of the Specialised Commercial Crime Unit (SCCU) and Bulelwa Vimbani, regional head: SCCU. In the letter, Noko details how she reached a decision not to prosecute Panday in 2015. She points to the manner in which the case was handled and refers to “scores” being settled by the parties involved, including Johan Booysen. She said that Booysen had complained about her decision to have the case withdrawn. “I mentioned, inter alia, in my reasons that there appear to be agendas among the parties and scores to be settled, and unfortunately we (the prosecutors) appear to be used. In this case, for example, the complainant, Booysen, played a far too active role than it was proper, fair and just for a complainant to play in their own case. For example, he directly instructed a station commander of the Durban Central police station where one of the accused, in this case, Colonel Navin Madhoe, was incarcerated regarding who may visit the accused in his own case and how that must be dealt with, and also himself, as the complainant, having visitation rights to the accused in his own case.” NPA spokesperson Sipho Ngwema confirmed the authenticity of the letter and said the matter was receiving attention. “There are internal processes under way aimed at addressing various court judgments and related proceedings which commented on many of the issues raised. Unfortunately, those processes remain confidential for now and their outcomes may be communicated to the public through known platforms,” Ngwema said. The Pietermaritzburg High Court recently set aside Noko’s decision and, as a result, Panday, Madhoe and former provincial police commissioner Mmamonnye Ngobeni were recently charged. Noko also mentioned how Booysen had allegedly worked tirelessly to bring down Ngobeni. She claimed that the plot was to force Ngobeni out and Booysen to take over the position and when Madhoe and Panday refused to co-operate, Booysen pursued them using the NPA. Contacted for clarity yesterday on what agendas she was referring to and who the parties involved were, Noko said she was not ready to speak to the media. “I’m not ready to talk to you because of the trauma you have caused me on this matter over the years. The media has been portraying me as this bad person, a rotten apple. So I’m not ready for you, maybe in future,” she said. Panday, speaking to the Daily News yesterday, said that he was not surprised by the contents of the document and that it should not be taken lightly. “All these charges against me, I was told, would go away and the money owed to me for the 2010 World Cup accommodation would be released to me immediately if I signed an affidavit implicating commissioner Ngobeni with fraud and corruption. The investigators had called me to the crime-intelligence offices on a Sunday in 2011, a day before I left for the DRC on a business trip. I refused to be part of an action that was meant to destroy an innocent woman’s future and career. The charges against me were not only withdrawn by advocate Noko alone, there are other advocates who did the same thing before her,” Panday said. He said during the attempts to coerce him, Booysen was on speaker phone with the investigators. Letsholo could not be reached for comment and Vimbani declined to comment. Ngobeni’s lawyer, Ravindra Manicklal, said they could not comment on Noko’s letter as the matter was still with the courts. Booysen said Panday should ventilate his accusations at his trial. “Regarding Noko’s letter, I will say this: she lies through her teeth. She is currently under investigation for fraud for making misrepresentations to prosecute me. Her letter, which contains mostly falsehoods and Panday’s assertion, is a distraction. “The recent judgment by the Durban High Court regarding the same allegations and the ‘De Kock’ report from the NPA rubbishes the allegations by Panday and Noko,” Booysen said. Daily News