Durban - THE family of a man who sustained third-degree burns in an informal settlement fire in Reservoir Hills is busy with his funeral arrangements. Moses Mbanjwa succumbed to his injuries a day after the fire, on October 25. On Wednesday, Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza, who was at the New Germany Informal Settlement in Reservoir Hills, said social workers would be deployed to the community in an effort to profile each family to assess their needs regarding documentation and school-going children. “The families affected by the fire have lost their identity documents and their children’s birth certificates. Those who are of school-going age have lost their school uniforms and are unable to return to school. We are going to assist them in this regard.” It took five hours for firefighters to put out the blaze, which engulfed 412 shacks leaving hundreds homeless. The informal settlement’s committee chairperson, Mphikelwa Shezi, said the community had been placed on the land in 1997 after having been removed from another plot of land in Derna Road, also in Reservoir Hills. Mbanjwa had been in his shack with his 10-year-old boy when the fire broke out, but the youngster managed to escape. “His son still has bandages. He sustained burn wounds on his face, his arms and legs but he is home and not in hospital.” Durban Fire Division Commander Ntuthuko Mathe, who led the fire-fighting team at the site, said the cause of the fire was not known. At the time, residents had told firefighters that they believed the fire started in Mbanjwa’s shack. Firefighters had confirmed that Mbanjwa was heavily intoxicated. ANC proportional representation councillor Busi Ndlovu said that after the fire, local NGOs pitched in helping the affected community with food and blankets, and that soon after the fire, residents began re-erecting their homes. She said those who could not rebuild had sought temporary shelter from neighbours and friends. “Normally when there’s a disaster like this, the community sticks together and those who were not affected by the fire help those who were. We have also erected a tent here for those who needed shelter,” said Ndlovu. “Here we have material to rebuild 12 homes. There are 197 community members who are still in need of shelter. “The municipality provided building material, but due to Covid-19, we will not be distributing this all at once to the 197 people who need it, this is in a bid to maintain social distancing.” Daily News