Durban - POLICE are still searching for those involved in the murder of Pietermaritzburg Constable Jeandre Andries Jacobus Venter in Msinga on Thursday night. Venter, 30, was stationed at the Alexandra Road Vehicle Crime Investigation Unit. He was in Msinga with his colleague to arrest two people wanted for the theft of a motor vehicle stolen in Willowfontein on October 5. Police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said Venter and another police officer proceeded to Mbabane Road in Msinga where they arrested a 25-year-old man. They continued to another homestead to arrest a second person. “Constable Venter remained in the vehicle with the arrested man. The other police officer went to the second identified house, but when he was a few metres away he heard shots being fired.” The police officer returned to the vehicle and discovered that Venter and the man had sustained multiple gunshot wounds to the head and body. They were declared dead at the scene. Charges of murder were opened at Msinga SAPS. The name of the suspected car thief was not released to the public. Venter’s fiancée, Barbara Date, said he was taken away from his family at a young age. They have a four-year-old son together. “We want answers and justice! He was so dedicated and loved his job. He did his job with the utmost pride and did not deserve this. Our son has lost not only his father, but his hero and mentor,” Date said. On Facebook, Busisani Majola described Venter as a well-trained and good tracker. “They’ve been stationed here for quite some time now. He was always wearing shorts and carrying an assault rifle. A young fellow. He was always smiling and dedicated to his job. His death is truly a loss to the police profession and we wish that the perpetrator/s are caught and justice is served,” Majola wrote. During the annual national Day of Commemoration in September for police officials and reservists who died in the line of duty, South African Deputy President David Mabuza said 40 police officers, including a reservist, had been killed. “These were members who knew the risks and dangers associated with this vocation, yet they remained committed to the cause of serving and protecting all people within South Africa’s borders,” Mabuza said. On Friday, the quarterly crime statistics between July and September 2020 were released by Police Minister Bheki Cele. In the period, 5107 people were murdered in the country. South African Policing Union provincial deputy chairperson Peter Ntsime said the government was not taking the murder of police officers seriously enough. Daily News