Durban - IN THE week when International Older Persons Day was observed, two elderly women were tied up in their homes and robbed. KZN Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza said older persons were regarded as the most vulnerable in society. “We have seen a number of incidents where senior citizens were abused and even murdered. Older persons should be respected and protected.” Clairwood resident Kalawathie Nansook, 94, lives on her own and was tied up on Thursday by two robbers. She said she had to slide on her back from her room to the passage to get help. She had seen two men loitering on her property. When she yelled out to them they asked for water. She obliged and they left. A few minutes later she went to take washing off the line. “When I opened the lock a hand appeared over mine. Two men were standing on either side of the door. They pushed me inside. They searched my cupboard drawers and took a dish cloth out. They put me face down on the floor. They used scissors to cut the straps off a handbag. They placed the cloth around my mouth and used the straps around my face. It was really tight. I could not breathe. I got a cut under my tongue from the straps,” she said. The men tied an apron around her neck and her hands behind her back. She has a bandage on her arm from being tied up. “They removed the bed sheet. They wrapped the television in it and left. “I began wiggling my body and kicked my legs so I could turn on to my back. I slid on my back to the door. I can’t remember how long I was in that position. My tenant raised the alarm.” A television and R100 was taken. Woodhurst Crime Watch reported a similar incident in Chatsworth. On Saturday night, a woman, 81, was found by a relative in her bathroom with her hands and legs tied. The woman was in hospital yesterday. Her car and television were stolen.IN THE week when International Older Persons Day was observed, two elderly women were tied up in their homes and robbed. KZN Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza said older persons were regarded as the most vulnerable in society. “We have seen a number of incidents where senior citizens were abused and even murdered. Older persons should be respected and protected.” Clairwood resident Kalawathie Nansook, 94, lives on her own and was tied up on Thursday by two robbers. She said she had to slide on her back from her room to the passage to get help. She had seen two men loitering on her property. When she yelled out to them they asked for water. She obliged and they left. A few minutes later she went to take washing off the line. “When I opened the lock a hand appeared over mine. Two men were standing on either side of the door. They pushed me inside. They searched my cupboard drawers and took a dish cloth out. They put me face down on the floor. They used scissors to cut the straps off a handbag. They placed the cloth around my mouth and used the straps around my face. It was really tight. I could not breathe. I got a cut under my tongue from the straps,” she said. The men tied an apron around her neck and her hands behind her back. She has a bandage on her arm from being tied up. “They removed the bed sheet. They wrapped the television in it and left. “I began wiggling my body and kicked my legs so I could turn on to my back. I slid on my back to the door. I can’t remember how long I was in that position. My tenant raised the alarm.” A television and R100 was taken. Woodhurst Crime Watch reported a similar incident in Chatsworth. On Saturday night, a woman, 81, was found by a relative in her bathroom with her hands and legs tied. The woman was in hospital yesterday. Her car and television were stolen.