Durban - A PRIVATE security company is raising funds to offer as a reward for information on who might have killed its employee Siphamandla Dlamini on the North Coast yesterday. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the IGS security response officer had visited his sites at Shaka’s Head and, while en route to go off duty, he was confronted by three men clad in masks and hoodies, at the intersection of Palm Grove and Shaka’s Rock. “The men allegedly forced the security vehicle to a halt. They allegedly fought with the response officer through the vehicle window, while he was still seated inside his bakkie. They allegedly stole his 9mm pistol and thereafter shot him,” Mbele said. Dlamini was pronounced dead at the scene. Another security guard, who was across the road when the shooting occurred, told police that the men ran towards Shaka’s Head with Dlamini’s company firearm. Mbele said two 9mm spent cartridges were found on scene, inside the security van. IGS Investigation and guarding services director Stuart Weston said Dlamini arrived at a pick-up point for his crew before 5am. It is alleged that two men approached his vehicle from the passenger side. Weston said the window was closed. The men fired a shot through the window. “The bullet struck him on the upper left arm. A third person approached his vehicle from the driver’s side. Dlamini’s window was open. He was shot twice in the chest under the bulletproof vest at close range. His company firearm was taken. They did not take his cellphone, additional ammunition and his two-way radio. Four people in the vicinity witnessed it,” Weston said. Weston described him as a dedicated person and “one of the greatest guys I had worked with”. “When I arrived on the scene I turned the ignition off. His foot was still on the brake but the car had stalled. We have raised a substantial amount of money as a reward to anyone who has information on the perpetrators,” Weston said. Umhlali SAPS is investigating a case of murder and robbery. Daily News