Durban - A TONGAAT father died after he was allegedly electrocuted by illegally connected electricity cables on Sunday morning. Prenasen Govender, 27, who worked for a laundry manufacturing company, was found in a ditch on top of illegally connected electricity cables. The cables led to an informal settlement on Edmundsbury Street in Flamingo Heights. Liban Anthony, the family spokesperson, said Govender was in a relationship with his daughter, Makayla Anthony. They have a 5-yearold son, Renlin. “I live in Johannesburg, and Makayla lives in our family flat in Flamingo Heights with Renlin. Prenasen lived in Belvedere. The last time Makayla saw Prenasen alive was on Friday when he visited her. His friends then saw him on Saturday night. “Makayla tried to contact him on his cellphone on Saturday, but he could not be reached. The next morning, a resident informed her of his death. Anthony said they suspected that Prenasen had been electrocuted. “The cables were lying exposed in a ditch on the pathway, and Prenasen’s body was found on top of the cables. It is heartbreaking that something like this had to happen to him. It is hard for us to accept because these types of deaths can be avoided.” Anthony said explaining what had happened to Renlin was difficult. “He continuously asks for his father. “This incident has robbed an innocent child of his father.” Anthony said Makayla was not coping. “They met in high school, and they have been together for seven years. They had plans to get married, but those plans were taken away from her. Prenasen was a humble soul. His mother, brother, and sister had passed on. He did not know his father’s whereabouts. We were his family.” Anthony said they wanted the eThekwini Municipality to be held accountable for his death. “They are the reason this has happened.” Dolly Munien, the DA councillor for the area, said the issue of illegal electricity connections had been ongoing since 2016. “The municipality provided power to the area via a transformer, but whenever the electricity trips, the electricity is connected illegally from the main box on Edmundsbury Street. “About a week ago, this happened, and I wrote to the municipality about the fault, and the illegal connections, but we did not get a response. I wrote to the city again after Prenasen’s death, and I am awaiting a reply.” Munien said the informal settlement had about 5 000 residents. “This pathway is a danger for both formal and informal residents.” Maxwell Ndumge, a representative from the informal settlement, said: “How many more people will die before we get assistance? We need the municipality to resolve this matter.” Msawakhe Mayisela, the city spokesperson, said illegal connections were a concern despite the strides made to formally electrify informal settlements. “In the event that illegal connections are brought to our attention, we always move with speed to disconnect.” He said the city would not win the war alone as long as the same members of the community continued to collude with criminals and thieves to steal electricity. “We send our heartfelt condolences to the family of the man who has been electrocuted. It would be very unfair to apportion the blame to the municipality for the reasons stated above. Following this tragedy, it is high time that our communities do an objective introspection of themselves as some are party to this crime.” Captain Nqobile Gwala, a provincial police spokesperson, said an inquest docket was being investigated by Tongaat SAPS. “It is alleged that a 27-year-old male was electrocuted in Tongaat. The circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated.” To report the suspicion of cable theft and illegal electricity connections, call the electricity call centre at 080 1313 111, SMS 083 700 0819 or email custocare@ elec.durban.gov.za POST Govender will be cremated on Friday at the Tongaat Crematorium. LEFT:RIGHT