Durban - THE recent Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) ruling on the BEE concept was an insult to previously disadvantaged communities. The judgment has the potential to reverse all the gains made so far to level the field of play among businesses, said at least two independent Durban businessmen yesterday. Businessman Roy Moodley questioned how the court reached the decision that the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPPF) Regulations were invalid. He said if implemented, the ruling would have a detrimental effect on black businesses which are already struggling. “White-owned businesses still have the upper hand and black-owned businesses suffer because they don’t have the infrastructure. “Fronting is the name of the game and those whose credentials are used by the white business people get small change of the contracts awarded. This is why we need stronger measures to ensure that the (BEE) concept is not hijacked or plagued with fraud and corruption,” said Moodley. Sakeliga, formerly known as AfriBusiness, a business lobby group that represents white minority business people, had challenged the legality of the tendering system, especially the PPPF Regulations in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria in 2017, and lost. The Supreme Court of Appeal, however, gave a different ruling on the matter earlier this month. The court ruled that the pre-qualifying requirements set by state entities when considering tender bids were invalid. Around 2016, the government had started a process to review the procurement system to bring it in line with the PPPF Act. The Act gives BEE-compliant bidders an upper hand in the government’s bidding process, where tender bids are evaluated on a points system. Companies that are not 51% black-owned are disqualified without considering their bid price for the tender. Businessman Joel Maharaj said the ruling that BEE or part of the concept was unconstitutional was undermining the government’s efforts to ensure that black small businesses were afforded an opportunity to benefit from state entities. “Previously, we never had this. It was only one race that benefited – the white race. Yes, the concept is exposed to fraud and corruption in some areas, but that doesn’t make it illegitimate. “The court has ruled, and that should be respected, but the question remains – how are they planning to reverse the injustices of the past in the business sector? There is nothing wrong with the BEE concept except to remove the loopholes that expose it to fraud and corruption,” said Maharaj. The Minara Chamber of Commerce, a formally constituted organisation representing SA businesses and entrepreneurs following Islamic principles, said the BEE concept was an essential tool to correct the imbalances of the apartheid regime. “The previously disadvantaged communities will never be able to compete at the same level as the advantaged communities unless there is government intervention to ensure the empowerment of our black communities. This concept is not new and has taken place in Malaysia for the indigenous communities. Without BEE there will never be radical economic transformation,” said Minara president Solly Suleman. He said BEE must ensure that as many individuals and businesses are empowered as possible, especially in the SMME – not a few who are given free shares while the masses struggle to eke out a living. “BEE must be used to encourage and develop entrepreneurship which can be the engine of growth, job creation and poverty alleviation even more so now with the Covid pandemic.” Commissioner of South Africa’s B-BBEE Commission, Zodwa Ntuli, said the SCA’s ruling would have no effect on the current B-BBEE Act and its requirements. On the fronting aspect, she said over 80% of the cases it had pertained to fronting and those were cases received before the court ruling. “Thus, fronting generally is a serious concern for South Africa which must be eradicated and it must not be isolated to the court ruling. Organs of state and public entities are still required by Section 10 (1) to apply the codes of good practice in determining criteria for preferential procurement, among others. Thus a due diligence process must at all time be followed to verify the B-BBEE information submitted by any bidder or service provider to ensure that the entity’s B-BBEE status is consistent with the B-BBEE Act.” Ntuli said the commission monitors and tracks B-BBEE certificates and to date 149 certificates have been declared invalid. Daily News 