Durban - “EVERYONE grieves differently. You grieve differently, I grieve differently. I was in shock”. So said Chatsworth man, Navin Chanderlal, 54, in response to why he was unemotional following the death of his wife. Chanderlal, who is unemployed, is standing trial for the murder of Vathaniagee “Jennifer” Pillay, 65, a retired nurse and community activist. The mother of two was found dead on the bathroom floor of her home in Silverglen on December 24, 2018. She shared the house with Chanderlal, whom she married in 2003. Chanderlal, who is represented by attorney Chris Gounden, was arrested in January 2019. At the start of the trial last month, he pleaded not guilty to murder. According to the indictment, which was presented by senior State advocate Krishen Shah, Pillay wanted to divorce Chanderlal and move overseas to be with her children. Her son Gino lives in the UK, and her daughter Carynne lives in Australia. The State believes he was unhappy with this turn of events and decided to kill her. According to a pathologist it was possible that Pillay was strangled to death. During his evidence-in-chief last week, Chanderlal told the court he and Pillay had been together for 33 years. They married in 2003 so they could live together in Dubai. Pillay had moved to the United Arab Emirates two years earlier. Her two children from a late husband stayed in South Africa and were raised by Chanderlal during this time. Chanderlal said he met Pillay when her children were 3 and 5, and he shared a good relationship with them until recently. He said that he also shared a good relationship with Pillay. On the day Pillay died, Chanderlal claimed he was in his room from the night before. “I was in my room and my wife came to get something. She said her neck was very painful and that she was going to have a nap. I said okay and went back to bed.” Chanderlal said he was asleep when, at some point, he heard the phone ring. “I went out of my bedroom. I could hear it ringing downstairs. I went downstairs and answered it. It was Gino. He asked me where his mother was. I think I said to him, I think she was asleep. I think he told me to wake her up.” Chanderlal said as he was about to go upstairs when he saw the sliding door open and the keys on the sliding gate. He said he went towards the door and looked for Pillay but could not see her. “I went upstairs and opened her bedroom door. She was not there. I saw the dogs inside the room. As I came out, I saw the bathroom door was a little bit open. I opened the door and saw my wife lying on the floor. I went to her and she was lying against the bathtub, between the toilet and bathtub. I panicked. I felt she was cold.” Chanderlal said he made several attempts to revive Pillay. “I tried to shake her. I called out her name but she did not respond. She had her collar (neck brace) on. I grabbed it and pulled it out. I felt to see if she was breathing but she was not. I put my hand on her neck to see if she was breathing, but she was not.” Chanderlal said he heard the phone ring again. “I went to get the phone. It was Gino. I told him my wife was cold and lying on the floor. I think he told me to press the panic button.” Chanderlal said he received a call from Blue Security and shortly thereafter a guard arrived. Chanderlal claimed the gate had been opened by a tenant (a foreigner who was on the witness list but can now not be found), while the security guard testified that he had opened the gate with a key that had previously been made available to Blue Security. Chanderlal said when his brother arrived at the house, he took him to the police station. After the police station he was taken to hospital. During cross-examination, Shah questioned Chanderlal about his attorney’s claim that there was someone else on the property the day Pillay died. Chanderlal said he had not ruled out this possibility. When asked why, Chanderlal said: “They said she was murdered and only the two of us were in the house. It was not me, so it must have been someone else.” Shah questioned Chanderlal as to why he had not taken the phone with him when Gino had called wanting to speak to his mother. “Why weren’t you carrying the cellphone when you went looking for your wife? You heard the cellphone, you walked to the kitchen?” Chanderlal said: “Because I went to check outside. I just left it on the counter. I was going to get it on the way upstairs…” Shah responded that his actions did not make sense. “Gino wanted to speak to his mother and to do that she would need the phone. Any right-minded person knows when someone calls, you take the phone to the person.” Shah also asked why Chanderlal had not called out for Pillay when the phone rang. “What sticks out like a sore thumb is you heard her phone ringing and never called out to her and said, ‘Jen, answer your phone’. “You looked for her outside, and never shouted, ‘ Jen, where are you? Gino is on the line’.” On Chanderlal’s lack of emotion, Shah asked: “When you found out your wife, the love of your life, was dead, and from what is apparent from the witnesses evidence, you did not show any emotion, you did not cry.” “I was in shock. “I found my wife cold on the floor. Everybody goes through grief differently. You go through grief differently, I go through it differently,” replied Chanderlal. Chanderlal also disputed the evidence of Dr Reshmi Mohanlall, a medical officer in the psychiatric ward at RK Khan Hospital. Last week Mohanlall testified that Chanderlal had claimed he could see the ocean on the floor and heard voices. Chanderlal denied seeing the ocean on the floor. He said the voices were those of other patients who were screaming and were aggressive. Evidence is likely to be wrapped up this week and the matter adjourned for judgment. POST