Durban – THE University of KwaZulu-Natal has sent through some of its experts to try to contain a coronavirus outbreak at the Siphiwe Zuma residence at its Howard College campus where 19 students have tested positive. Acting spokesperson Normah Zondo yesterday told the Daily News the university discovered on Friday 19 students tested positive for Covid-19. “Tests were conducted with 200 students who live at this residence. The affected students have been sent to the Department of Health facilities for isolation. This development saddens us as we have taken every precaution possible to ensure the safety of our students. It is also incumbent on our UKZN community to be as vigilant as possible. “The university has teams of health-care experts currently dealing with this outbreak and we thank them for their professionalism, generosity of spirit and for caring for our university community,” she said. Zondo said they had initiated various interventions to mitigate further outbreaks. Some of these interventions included limiting the number of visits to the Siphiwe Zuma residence to ensure the safety of other students; contact tracing was under way to look at possible interactions; and decontamination and cleaning of all the areas affected had taken place. “Prevention is the only key to containing the pandemic. It is essential to take care of your health and protect yourself and others from contracting or spreading viruses and illness,” she said. Central Student Representative Council president Sifiso Simelane said he had learnt about the outbreak yesterday and was concerned about how it had happened. “It is a worrying situation.” Simelane said they would also be looking at how to deal with the situation. Last week, Premier Sihle Zikalala warned people in KZN not to let their guard down and continue as normal, because errant behaviour could lead to the province returning to a hard lockdown. From figures shared by Health Minister Zweli Mkhize, as of Saturday South Africa had 19 276 Covid-19-related deaths. KZN was fourth in the country with 3 225 deaths, with Gauteng recording most deaths at 4 721. Daily News