Durban - RAVI Pillay has been put in charge of turning around KwaZulu-Natal’s economy. This week, Sihle Zikalala, KZN Premier, announced that Pillay and Nomusa Dube-Ncube would swap portfolios in the province’s executive council. Pillay will take charge of Economic Development, Tourism and Economic Affairs while Dube-Ncube will oversee the province’s finances. KZN Judge President, Achmat Jappie, presided over the swearing-in ceremony of the two MECs on Tuesday. Wishing both well, Zikalala said Pillay and Dube-Ncube were seasoned leaders who had experience in government. He said he had consulted with the ANC, who supported his decision. “We expect them to hit the ground running and ensure that we accelerate the pace to deliver on the eight key priorities of the sixth administration and improve the lives of the people in our province.” “This reconfiguration will re-invigorate and introduce effective strategies that will position the government to focus on accelerating transformation. Their contribution will be more critical as we respond to the current economic crisis exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic.” In March, South Africa went into hard lockdown in an effort to curb the spread of the coronavirus. It resulted in businesses closing and jobs being lost. The tourism sector, one of the key drivers of the KZN economy, was particularly hard hit. Dr Imraan Buccus, a political analyst at the UKZN, said while it was Zikalala’s prerogative to assign members of the executive, Pillay’s move to Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs was an indication of Zikalala’s confidence in Pillay. “He has been given a huge portfolio and, in many ways, he will energise this portfolio. Clearly, MEC Pillay has distinguished himself as a safe pair of hands and in the post-Covid context in KZN and South Africa, Pillay will bring fresh energy to the portfolio. “The announcement shows that Zikalala recognises MEC Pillay’s background of having handled infrastructure as well as being a workaholic.” Buccus said he was also sure DubeNcube would add value in her new position. However, opposition parties questioned the move. Zwakele Mncwango, leader of the DA in the KZN Legislature, said he was concerned. “The DA is surprised by the premier’s decision. We cannot see any good reason for either of these MECs to be shifted around. “The move raises serious questions around whether the reshuffle is motivated by internal ANC factionalism and whether the premier is in fact under political pressure. If this is not the case, then the premier needs to prove otherwise. “With the premier having failed to provide reasons for the move, it must also be asked whether he had in fact lost confidence in either of these MECs in their former roles.” Mncwango also questioned the timing of the move. “In a week from now, we are scheduled to have the medium-term budget. Already posters and boards have been made with MEC Pillay’s picture over it. Now we have to scrap that and pay more to reprint stuff with MEC Dube-Ncube's face. Also, what about the billboards and posters that have the MECs’ faces with their older titles? All this needs to be changed and it will come at substantial costs.” Narend Singh, an IPF member of Parliament, described Zikalala’s decision as “odd”. “Why did he only change two positions? We know it is his right to change if he so wishes, but we would like to know the reasons for the change. But I am sure once we ask questions in the legislature, we will find out.” POST