Durban - ITHALA Bank recently launched the Ithala WhatsApp service channel. The service channel offers customers a means to access services and information easily. Customers will be able to conduct the following activities: request and receive information about Ithala products and services; make enquiries about funding; request and receive a list of properties to lease; access and download application forms; seek and receive advice on funding and funding requirements; or to engage with a customer care and support consultant. In addition, the public can get information on vacancies at Ithala, corporate social investment programmes, as well as to lodge complaints or make enquiries. The launch of the WhatsApp service channel is Ithala’s response to the impact Covid-19 had on customer contact. “Customers do not have to walk to our premises to get product brochures or forms. Instead, they will get the brochures delivered conveniently on their phones via WhatsApp.” Furthermore, Ithala is also accelerating the drive for improved access to funding by local SMMEs after the negative economic impact suffered due to Covid-19. Ithala is implementing part of the KZN economic recovery strategy driven by the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs and the provincial government. The strategy is to increase the provision of support to SMMEs to bolster post-Covid-19 recovery efforts. Speaking at the launch, Ithala Group chief executive Pearl Bengu said: “We are doing all we can to support local business and enable them to rebuild their businesses to contribute to the local economy. We need to work together to reverse the economic impact of Covid-19 in society.” In responding to the economic challenges posed by Covid-19, Ithala worked over the past seven months to support clients by providing payment holidays and restructuring loans. Accessing the Ithala WhatsApp service is easy. The customers, or those interested in the services, need to save the WhatsApp phone number (087240 7071) and then send a message, “Hi”, to the number. Customers will be guided through simple steps and options to access various services. Daily News 