Durban - A TWO-DAY getaway to a Drakensberg resort by eThekwini Municipality’s senior officials and ANC councillors has been described by opposition parties as a “waste of taxpayers’ money”. However, city manager Sipho Nzuza has rejected the claims, describing the junket as a planning session to improve service delivery for the city’s residents. Senior officials, ANC executive committee members, chairpersons of committees, mayor Mxolisi Kaunda and Nzuza spent two days last week at a Drakensberg resort holding a strategic meeting. It was not immediately clear how many people were part of the conference and how much the city paid for the sojourn. The Mercury understands the session was meant to be a workshop about developing and meeting time-lines and deadlines for service delivery projects. The trip raised the ire of the IFP in the council, which questioned why the trip was not disclosed to opposition members, and called it a tax-funded weekend away. The DA’s leader in eThekwini, Nicole Graham, said it was not aware of the trip and declined to comment. Nzuza said the trip was a “very productive strategic session organised in the office of the mayor. I cannot comment on why opposition parties were not invited”. Chief financial officer Krish Kumar declined to comment and directed questions to the city’s communications unit. IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said the trip was a waste of taxpayers’ money. “There was a strategic meeting held in 2018, this is the second one. It does not make sense that they would have two strategic meetings in two years. What were they discussing that is different from what they discussed in 2018?  Even if there has been a change in leadership of the governing party, the plans already in place have not changed, all they had to do was implement them. If there had been a change in political parties running the council, this workshop would have made more sense. “The opposition party exco members were also not included in this trip, which raises more concerns. We fear this could lead to shenanigans in the future,” said Nkosi. He said the municipality had a serious problem with transparency. “Even with the visit by the legislature yesterday, as an opposition councillor I was not informed. I learned of the visit from the IFP representative in the legislature.” Mayoral spokesperson Mluleki Mntungwa said this was not an ANC event and the opposition was being mischievous by calling it a waste of money. “It was the chairpersons of the portfolio committees, the line manager and the DCM and the city manager there.” Mntungwa said the purpose was to develop time-lines in resolving issues of service delivery in the city that community members had been complaining about. “We have plans for service delivery, but we have to put concrete deadlines on the plans to ensure that issues are addressed,” he said. On whether opposition parties should have been invited, Mntungwa said the trip was a strategic annual event organised in the mayoral office. * An earlier version of this story said that the officials stayed at the Little Switzerland Resort, this was incorrect and has been amended. The Mercury