Durban - THREE men allegedly linked to the murder of oThongathi (Tongaat) businessman Ashveer Sukwa are expected to appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. This after an oThongathi police task team arrested one person in oThongathi and two others in Ndwedwe on Monday morning. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said R85 000 and a bloodstained Okapi knife were allegedly found when the men were arrested. Sukwa, 35, and his father Rajesh Sukwa, 65, were attacked in their home in Greylands on Saturday morning. Mbele said the house was ransacked, safes were emptied and household items were stolen. Ashveer Sukwa was stabbed to death in his bedroom, and his funeral took place at the oThongathi Crematorium yesterday. Spokesperson for private security company Reaction Unit SA, Prem Balram, said Sukwa senior was found in the kitchen covered in blood. He was stabbed four times. Ashveer Sukwa was found wrapped in a bed sheet and blanket in his room. “Sukwa senior said they were attacked by men known to them. He was repeatedly assaulted before he was locked in a cold room in the warehouse on the same property,” Balram said. He was discharged from hospital yesterday to attend his son’s funeral. Father and son bought fresh produce from farmers. They sold and distributed it at wholesale prices. Three months ago, they built a cold storage facility on their property and imported and exported fruit and vegetables. Family spokesperson Vinesh Sookdhoo said their focus had been on the funeral arrangements and prayer rituals yesterday. He said the arrests had brought some closure to the family, and praised police for their efforts. “His murder was a tremendous loss to all of us. Ashveer was someone we could depend on. He had taken the business to another level. Rajesh was trading in bananas. Ashveer branched off and began trading in all fruits and vegetables on a large scale. “We will attend the court cases to find out what really happened. For Rajesh, it is quite emotional to come home. The family is traumatised – for a person to be resting in their room and get brutally attacked. It seems that Ashveer did not put up a fight,” Sookdhoo said. Sukwa’s wife, Aney, and daughter Natasha had died a few years apart. The father and son lived in the house. KwaZulu-Natal police commissioner Khombinkosi Jula praised police officers and private security officials for working tirelessly to make the arrests. Daily News