THANDEKA MGQIBI Durban - BIOANALYTICAL scientist Dr Sooraj Baijnath made history when he won the international 2020 Bioanalysis Rising Star Award. The honorary research fellow in University of KwaZulu-Natal Discipline of Pharmaceutical Sciences is the first African to win the prize. He was nominated by Dr Sanil Singh, a vet, who he regards as his mentor. Baijnath competed against young scientists from the US, the UK, India and China. He said he was overwhelmed by the support he received after he won. “I usually go about my business quietly in my little corner in the lab. I am not really one for much show. But it has been touching to see the number of likes, shares and votes that I have received, especially the comments that people have left behind, explaining how I’ve been involved in their academic journey,” said Baijnath. While reading his Master’s degree in medical science, he developed an animal model to study changes in physiology and molecular biomarkers at different stages during a pre-eclamptic pregnancy. “Ever since I’ve gotten into bioanalysis, I’ve really enjoyed learning new techniques, methods and answering important research questions. Also, I think the important … well, one of the most fun aspects of being involved in bioanalysis is that the field is always evolving and growing.” Baijnath is a recipient of the 2016 National Research Foundation’s Excellence Award for Next Generation Researchers, which is awarded to the best PhD student in South Africa. He also received the UKZN College of Health Science’s Teaching and Learning 2018 award for the best emerging teacher. The Durban-born scientist recently moved to Uppsala University in Sweden to work as a researcher in the Medical Mass Spectrometry Department. He said he was not sure if he would be based there permanently. “At this point it is hard to say. My partner Shanel and I are here to try to learn as much as possible and to sharpen our scientific skill-set. I can say that my journey into science was serendipitous, so I will allow fate to lead the way.” Baijnath added that throughout his short career, he had been involved in mentoring and advising young scientists. With this award, he said he was toying with the idea of starting an organisation called “The Helping Hand”, in memory of his father. “I think winning this award gives me the platform and the motivation to finally take this idea forward and start this foundation in 2021.” As the winner of the BRSA, he will present his work at the 13th European Bioanalysis Forum (EBF) Open Symposium held virtually from November 17 to 20. Baijnath also received a one-year subscription to Bioanalysis and $1 000 (about R16 000) courtesy of Waters Corporation (Massachusetts, US), a leading provider of laboratory solutions and software in separations science, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis. His prize includes an all-expenses paid trip to the Waters Corporation to learn about the latest technologies in the field. The BRSA is an annual award that recognises and promotes the work of talented early-career scientists, offering researchers a springboard to help establish themselves in the world of bioanalysis. Nominations are now being accepted for the 2021 Bioanalysis Rising Star Awards. To submit a nomination, email n.maundrell@bioanalysis-zone.com POST