 Burfee 500g Klim powder 1 cup fresh cream Combine until you get very fine crumbs. Set aside. THE SYRUP 1 cup fresh milk ½ cup sugar 2 cups icing sugar 6 tbs butter ghee/ unsalted butter ½ tsp each of elachi and nutmeg Combine the ingredients for the syrup and cook on medium heat until it comes together. Add Klim, mix, and lower the heat. Stir to combine. You need a smooth mix. * I use a whisk during the cooking process to obtain a smooth end result.  Mini Burfee Bundt Cakes with Burfee Ganache 200g butter ghee 2 cups milk In a pot, heat the ghee and milk gently. Add in a bowl: 1 cup flour 1 cup semolina 1 cup coconut powder 1 cup sugar 3 tsp baking powder ½ cup Klim powder ½ tsp each of elachi and nutmeg Preheat oven to 180ºC. Combine the dry and wet ingredients to obtain a smooth batter. Pour into silicone mini bundt moulds and bake at 180ºC for 25 minutes. Check to see if it is done. All ovens differ, so baking times will differ slightly. Cool completely. Burfee ganache Add enough fresh cream to burfee (as per recipe above) to get a ganache-like texture. Dunk each mini bundt cake into the ganache. Decorate with edible roses and petals. Sprinkle glitter for a wow factor.  Flavoured burfee cakesicles Recipe for burfee, above Using flavour concentrates, for example, candy cane, Turkish delight, pistachio, strawberry or bubblegum, flavour small amounts of burfee. Use your colours of choice for each flavour and press onto a cakesicle mould. Refrigerate or freeze until firm. Unmould and decorate with the decoration of your choice.  Burfee-filled Gulab Jamun Gulab jamun: ½ tsp bicarbonate of soda 2 cups flour 2 heaped tsp baking powder 2 tbs semolina 2 tbs butter ghee ½ tsp each of elachi and nutmeg 1 tin condensed milk The syrup Boil together 1½ half cups of sugar and 1 cup of water with a teaspoon of rose water. Add a drop of lemon juice and keep warm. The dough Sift the dry ingredients. Add ghee, elachi and nutmeg. Add condensed milk and combine to make a soft dough. Roll into the length and thickness of a forefinger. Deep fry over medium heat. Take care.The temperature of the oil/ghee is lowered slightly to allow the jamun to swell and cook properly. It needs to be golden in colour. Drain and steep in syrup. Burfee filling Using the above burfee recipe, add enough fresh cream to the burfee to obtain a piping consistency. Slice the gulab jamun and pipe a generous amount of burfee cream into each one. * More from Pebbles on Facebook: Pebbles Kitchen 