Durban - THE Tongaat man accused of stabbing his wife to death while she dressed for church has chosen to reapply for bail. Denver Marimuthoo, 28, has been in custody at Westville Prison since his arrest eight months ago. The police arrested him on March 1, shortly after his wife, Roxanne Thanthoni, 31, was found face-down in a pool of blood at their home in Watsonia. It is alleged that he stabbed her following an argument and fled the scene in her vehicle. On Tuesday morning, Marimuthoo appeared in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court. The State requested that the matter be adjourned as the prosecutor in the matter, Sabelo Ziqubu, was unwell and unable to attend court. Marimuthoo’s attorney, Ravin Singh, asked that his client be detained in a police cell in Verulam pending his next court appearance. “The issue is that he suffered an illness at Westville Prison and needs to be medically examined by a health practitioner,” said Singh. Singh did not mention the nature of the illness. Magistrate Rajesh Parshotam said in such cases, prior arrangement needed to be made. “Have any provisions been made for him to be detained at a police cell and for a private medical examiner to look at the accused?” asked Parshotam. Singh responded that no provisions had been made. Parshotam said the accused would remain in custody at Westville Prison pending his next appearance. The case was adjourned to November 18. This will be the second time that Marimuthoo has submitted an application for bail. In March, he initially abandoned his application but in June he changed his mind when he changed legal representation. He was initially represented by Legal Aid but switched to private counsel. Ziqubu at the time argued that Marimuthoo was a flight risk and a danger to State witnesses, the deceased’s parents and to himself. He said the accused could abscond from the trial as he went missing twice before, and referenced an incident when Marimuthoo went missing from a rehabilitation facility. The State said the accused had an alcohol and drug abuse problem. The defence argued that Marimuthoo’s mother lived in Stanger. Singh said his client maintained his innocence and that he loved the deceased and would never harm her. He also argued that he was not a danger to society nor a flight risk, and had surrendered himself calmly to the police. Bail was, however, denied due to the serious nature of the crime and because he was deemed a flight risk. Parshotam found him to be irresponsible and likely to abscond from the trial. He also found that the accused’s mother could not control him and could not guarantee that the accused would appear for his trial date. Parshotam further took into consideration a petition signed by more than 1 000 community members who called for bail to be denied. On Tuesday, Thanthoni’s friends and family stood outside court in “Justice for Roxanne” T-shirts, calling for bail to be denied. The dead woman’s dad, Narainsamy “Babs” Thanthoni, said every time he attended a hearing, it brought back memories. “It doesn’t get easier. No parent should have to go through the pain of losing their child like this. My God has helped us get through these past few months. If it were not for him, we would not be standing here today.” He said he wanted the court to take gender-based crime seriously. “For too long, women are dying at the hands of their partners. Let this case be an example and serve as a deterrent for others.” It is alleged that Roxanne Thanthoni was getting dressed for church when Marimuthoo stabbed her multiple times with a meat knife and left her for dead. Thanthoni was found in her underwear lying face-down in blood by her landlord, while Marimuthoo allegedly fled the scene in her vehicle. He was only wearing his boxer shorts. Thanthoni died before paramedics arrived. Marimuthoo was found hours later at his parents’ home in Stanger. Thanthoni worked as a junior manager at Rewardsco, a call centre in uMhlanga. The accused also worked there as an agent. The couple would have been married for three months on March 8. They met in church when Thanthoni was sharing her testimony. POST