Durban - PRIVATE security companies and police are urging people to be aware of a new trend of robbery by passengers in cars. PT Alarms spokesperson Dhevan Govindasamy said robbers were targeting people walking on pavements for their cellphones. He said the modus operandi was to stop their car or bakkie next to the victim, grab them and rob them of their possessions. On Tuesday, a 41-year-old Merebank woman was robbed on Narbada Road. She was walking to a salon near her home. The woman, who did not want to be named, had her purse and cellphone in hand. She saw a bakkie with tinted windows drive past her, turn around further up the road and then drive towards her. “I thought the driver was lost and was going to ask me for directions. The passenger side doors were flung open. I was between them. One guy had a bush knife. The other tried to grab me,” said the mother of two. “Thoughts of being taken away, raped and killed flashed through my mind. I screamed. The guy dropped the bush knife. I looked the other in the eye. I kicked off my shoes and made a run for it but I tripped and fell further down the road. My stuff was scattered on the road. They took my phone and drove off. They might have taken me if it wasn’t for a passing motorist who screamed at them.” The woman said she could not remember any of her personal details when help arrived. “One of the robbers’ eyes just penetrated me. It gave me a sleepless night. I was shocked and an emotional wreck. “The police gave me a page and pen to write down my details but I just couldn’t remember anything. It will be my birthday on Friday. It could have been the day of my funeral.” Govindasamy urged women and children to walk in groups. “Children should always be accompanied by adults. Women should refrain from walking alone as there are ruthless criminals lurking in the shadows waiting to strike. Leave all valuable items at home,” he warned. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed that a bakkie with three unknown men had stopped and robbed the woman of her two cellphones at gunpoint. Daily News