Durban - THE South African Jewish Board of Deputies and the EFF have slammed the DA’s tweet that likened the EFF to Germany’s World War II Nazis. The DA comment, which elicited strong reaction on social media, was made in the wake of violence that erupted between EFF supporters and Brackenfell parents outside Brackenfell High School in Cape Town on Monday. The EFF went to the school after an “all whites” private matric party was held at a wine farm in Stellenbosch when the school decided not to have a matric ball due to Covid-19. No pupils of colour were invited. Fists flew during the EFF and parents stand-off at the school while the pupils wrote their final exams. In a tweet on its official Twitter account, the DA said: “The Nazis had the brown shirts that went around terrorising minorities. South Africa has the red shirts.” The tweet elicited angry reactions with some arguing it was insensitive. However, the DA dug in its heels, with the party’s policy head Gwen Ngwenya saying: “There’ve been numerous comparisons of EFF to the Nazis/Hitler. After years of EFF Nazi comparison, overnight some commentators have realised they are passionately against it …” She then cited a comment allegedly made by former Wits University vice-chancellor Adam Habib who compared EFF leader Julius Malema with Adolf Hitler. In response to the tweet, president of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies Mary Kluk said: “It has become increasingly commonplace for Nazi comparisons to be made in just about any situation. Whenever tempers flare, analogies with Nazi Germany surface. This is problematic. “The Nazi regime was an exceptionally evil and destructive tyranny that went on to perpetrate some of the worst atrocities in human history, including the systematic annihilation of some three-quarters of European Jewry and millions of others for racial, political and ideological reasons. “To make casual, knee-jerk comparisons with Nazism is therefore flippant and insensitive.” KwaZulu-Natal EFF chairperson Vusi Khoza said EFF members were assaulted in an unprovoked attack. “The comparison to Nazis was an insult to Jewish people who experienced first-hand the violence of the Nazis. The DA need to reflect on itself and how some of its members had connections to apartheid in the past.” Khoza wanted the SA Human Rights Commission to look into the matter and the SA Jewish Board of Deputies to denounce it, Daily News