Durban - The identification of the woman who was dumped in Inanda, north of Durban, with her throat slit and her hands cut off has brought back memories of Siam Lee’s murder. Jessica Weyers was identified on Thursday by her mother, Leanne Claassens, at the Phoenix Mortuary. In a Facebook post, Mobi-Claw 911’s spokesperson Mike Myers said the public was introduced to ‘Jane’ on January 18, 2018, who was interviewed during the search for Siam Lee. “We met Jessica through our investigation in the Siam Lee murder case. We delved into the very dark side of Durban involving prostitution and drugs. Jane was a working girl who became a very reliable source of information that led us into this dark underworld,” said Myers. Lee was abducted in January 2018 from a Durban North house believed to be a brothel. Two days later her charred body was found in a sugarcane field in New Hanover. The man accused of her murder died of cancer. He said in their article they mentioned Weyers’ cat who was very close to her. Myers also said it was very sad to hear of Weyers’ death and sent condolences to her family. Mobi-Claw 911 had been investigating the disappearance of Siam Lee and their investigations led them to the beachfront where they met Weyers. Here are a couple of paragraphs from the day they met and interviewed Weyers: “We find what we’re looking for, the woman that everyone says is Siam, but it’s not. We can certainly see the similarity and why we have been led to her. For the purpose of this story we’ll call her Jane.” “Jane is estimated to be in her late twenties, in her own right, very attractive, save for her teeth that have been rotted by drugs. She very quickly softens up to us when she realises that we’re not there for her and looking for a missing girl and invites us into her flat. This is a hard, streetwise girl, doesn’t pull any punches with her mouth, says it like it is. But we note little things, she has a cat, this cat loves her and won’t leave her alone, there is a bedraggled Christmas tree in the one corner. You soon realise, this girl has a heart and somewhere deep down in there she is hurting and wanting for more, but the drugs have captured her soul.” “We interview Jane in the hope of a lead to Siam, what comes out of that interview is scary, it leads to insinuations of a human trafficking ring. We cannot divulge more in that regard at this stage as we have opened our own investigation into it, we have no idea what could be uncovered or whether it’s just another cold lead.” Daily News Jessica Weyers and her cat 