Durban - KwaZulu-Natal premier, Sihle Zikalala reshuffled his provincial cabinet on Tuesday by swapping around two MEC’s. Nomusa Dube-Ncube who was in charge of the powerful Economic Development and Tourism and Environmental Affairs portfolio was moved to Finance  portfolio in a straight swap with Ravi Pillay, who will take up her former position. While Zikalala said the move was to  “accelerate transformation”, the official opposition in the provincial government, the DA said they were concerned that the reshuffle could be part of the factionalism in the ANC. The two MEC’s were sworn in by Judge President of KwaZulu-Natal, Achmat Jappie In a statement on Tuesday, Zikalala said he two MEC’s were seasoned leaders with a wealth of experience in government. “We expect them to hit the ground running and ensure that we accelerate the pace to deliver on the eight key priorities of the 6th administration and improve the lives of the people of our province,” Zikalala said. “This reconfiguration will re-invigorate and introduce effective strategies that will position government to focus on accelerating transformation.  Their contribution will be more critical as we respond to the current economic crisis exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic”. Zwakele Mncwango, the leader of the DA in the KZN Legislature said they were surprised by the premier’s decision. “We cannot see any good reason for either of these MECs to be shifted around,” Mncwango said in a statement. “The move raises serious questions around whether the reshuffle is motivated by internal ANC factionalism and whether the Premier is in fact under political pressure. If this is not the case, then the Premier needs to prove otherwise. With the Premier having failed to provide reasons for the move, it must also be asked whether he had in fact lost confidence in either of these MECs in their former roles,” he added. The DA said that reshuffles bring substantial costs in terms of branding. “While the DA acknowledges that Cabinet appointments are the prerogative of the Premier and that he may not be obligated to provide reasons for the move, we call on him to provide more clarity in the interest of transparency and good governance. If our province is to work, then we must work together. This means being candid when to comes to critical decisions that affect our people,” Mncwango said. Daily News