Durban - RESIDENTS in Barton Place in Clare Estate want answers from the eThekwini Municipality after they found out that a housing project, similar to Cornubia, is being built on their road. Leeshan Maharaj, a resident and the chairperson of a committee that has been formed to approach the city, said they suspected something was happening late last year. “Barton Place has about 50 homes. There’s only one way in and out of the area and it’s very quiet. “Last year, we noticed contractors coming to the vacant land opposite the homes. We approached one of the contractors that was on the site and we found out that the land was going to be used to build 198 low-cost homes.” Maharaj said they were shocked and concerned because they knew from previous years that the land was not suitable to be built on. “In 1989 the House of Delegates approached the residents and said it wanted to build a school on the same land. We, as the residents, handed over the land to them because we could not refuse for a school to be built. When the land was registered to the House of Delegates, they began to test the soil and found that the soil was not feasible for building purposes and the plan fell through. The school was built elsewhere. Now, years later, we’re hearing that they are going to be building on the land.” Maharaj said there was also a study done worldwide – which the residents have – that named Barton Place as being an area that could not support buildings. “We met with the mayor’s office last week where we handed over the study to the officials. We also told them that the residents were not comfortable with the idea of people coming into the area. Maharaj said work on the land had already started and that the foundation was being laid. “We have been seeing how the work is being done and we fear the work is not being done the right way. I am in the engineering field and we noticed that the pipes being laid down for the sewer lines are thin and there will definitely be a problem with clogging in the future. “We have approached the city and we are hopeful that they can get back to us with feedback soon.” On Tuesday, Maharaj and other residents met city officials. They handed over video footage from the vacant land and further information that the soil was allegedly not suitable to be built on. A follow-up meeting is expected to take place later this month. The city referred the POST to the mayor’s spokesperson for comment. He could not be reached by the time of publication. POST