Durban -  THREE years and nine months old and the Du Plessis twins have gone from specialist to specialist in the hope of a better life. Mienkie needs cochlear implants while Karlie needs selective dorsal rhizotomy surgery (SDR) for her cerebral palsy spastic diplegia. The twins were born at 20 weeks on February 1, 2017, and had to stay in the neonatal intensive care unit for 101 days. Mom Natasha du Plessis said when they started going to BabyGym, she realised Karlie was not listening or turning her head for the bell. After a hearing test and auditory brainstem response test was conducted, Karlie was diagnosed with auditory neuropathy spectrum disorder: profound hearing loss. She said Karlie also received hearing aids that did not benefit her. “On October 30, we did an MRI and CT scan. The only problem is that her cochlear is not working. What we need for Karlie is cochlear implants which is actually a big operation and hopefully we’ll be able to do that in January depending on funds we’re raising,” said Du Plessis. Mienkie also had an MRI and CT scan, which found that she had cerebral palsy spastic diplegia. She was diagnosed at 2 years old. She cannot walk unaided, or sit or run. She walks with a walker which she calls her “little car”. “We’re doing Botox injections with her and the injections only last for about four to six months, and there’s no cure for cerebral palsy. It’s not the cure or the best way. “The best thing would be SDR surgery and that will help her to walk, and Dr Park in the US in Missouri, he’s got a 100% success rate and he’s a professor of neurosurgery. And that’s why we’d love to go through to him, because he’s the best in this field.” Du Plessis said that doctors also said Mienkie was a good candidate for the surgery, but it cost a lot. She said both she and her husband Christiaan wanted to give the twins the best quality of life. The twins are in preschool while their parents work full time. Du Plessis said it was embarrassing to ask for money, but they appreciated everyone who had helped them. “For Karlie, the cochlear implants cost between R270 000 and R330 000 and medical aid pays R174 000, so we will have to come up with the rest. “For Mienkie, her surgery is R781 000 and that is at the current exchange rate. If they have to do a muscle tendon lengthening, which I know they will have to do because her calf muscles are very short, it costs between R134 000 and R200 000 on top of that. Then you also have to look at your flights and accommodation, and she has to stay there for about a month and has to do intensive physiotherapy.” For donations and more information on the twins, visit their website: www.mienkieandkarlie.com Daily News