THANDEKA MGQIBI Durban - AT 67, Dr Trishun Singh has become a certified cardio- oncologist, making him the first in Africa. This was after he recently passed an international exam under the auspices of the International Cardio-Oncology Society (ICOS) in the US, in conjunction with the Research and Scientific Board. He said his passion for cardio-oncology started eight years ago, when he attended a cardiac conference in London. Singh was born in Durban. He credits his late mother, Chintamani Singh, as the driving force behind his academic success. “Her highest form of education was Standard 8 (Grade 10), but she pushed my brother and I to further our education.” After matriculating at Sastri College, he attended Wits medical school before transferring to Natal University to be closer to home. He completed his Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) qualification in 1977 and, after his internship, he started his postgraduate studies in internal medicine. “After that, I went on to train in cardiology at Wentworth Hospital and I started my own cardiology practice at St Augustine’s Hospital in 1987.” Singh said he was the first black cardiologist in private cardiology practice in KwaZulu-Natal, and the second in the country. He has four partners and they each have their own practices. Singh said cardio-oncology was a new sub-speciality that addressed the needs of cancer patients at risk of, or who have experienced cancer-therapy-related cardiac dysfunction (CTRCD). “Many cancers today are curable because of the excellent chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery. “However, cancer therapy may result in cardiovascular complications, including heart rhythm problems. Thus many cancer patients are cured of the cancer, but succumb to cardiovascular complications that can result in heart failure, heart attacks and stroke.” Last year, Singh established the first Cardio-Oncology Centre at Netcare uMhlanga Hospital together with the first Cardio-Oncology Society in South Africa (Cososa), of which he is the president. Cososa advises the government on cardio-oncology for the public sector, educates the medical fraternity involved in cancer care, and educates the public about cardio-oncology. Singh, who got his cardio-oncology exam results earlier this month from ICOS, said he was far from retiring and had a lot to offer for at least another 13 years. “I’m grateful to my wife, Camilla, who encouraged and supported me in pursuit of my qualification.” POST