NADIA KHAN and THANDEKA MGQIBI Durban - THERE were mixed reactions from pupils and teacher unions after the Grade12 exam timetable was released last Wednesday. More than 1 million matric pupils are expected to write the 2020 National Senior Certificate (NSC) exams. Elijah Mhlanga, the head of communications for the Department of Basic Education, said because of the closure of schools on March 18, Angie Motshekga, the Minister of Basic Education, decided to combine the exams for May/June and the final year. The exams will start on November 5 with English (first additional language) and will end on December 15 with visual arts and agricultural management. “The late commencement of the Grade 12 examinations will allow schools and learners adequate time to cover the curriculum and to ensure that ample time is allocated for revision.” Mhlanga said the life orientation common assessment task would be written on October 19 and the practical exams in computer applications technology and information technology on October 21 and October 22, respectively. The results will be released on February 23. “Candidates need to be assured that the late release of the results will not jeopardise their admission to higher education institutions,” Mhlanga said. Thirona Moodley, provincial chief executive of the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of SA in KZN, said even if the syllabus could be completed, there would be no time for revision and studying of past-year papers. “The learners would therefore have to work even harder. This would be the first time that Grade 12s sit for a formal examination this year. “The lack of practical experience in writing a big exam may cause poor performance.” Allen Thompson, the president of the National Teachers’ Union, said teachers and pupils were not prepared for the final exams, especially those living in township and rural areas. “Unfortunately, those schools did not benefit from online learning and most of them couldn’t open because they weren’t Covid-19 compliant. “Those that were able to open did so at a stop-and-go pace because of infections.” He said the department did not employ additional teachers to replace those who had been on leave because of comorbidities – most of whom were Grade 12 teachers. Thompson said the union had requested to meet members from the Council for Quality Assurance in General and Further Education and Training. “We understand the papers have already been set. We do not want to compromise standards, but rather to request for consideration when marking.” Some matric pupils are optimistic, while others are concerned. * Shweta Rosenpershad, 17, of Apollo Secondary School in Chatsworth, said: “I feel we have ample time to finish the syllabus and do revision. While it is not how I expected my matric year to be, I am ready to give it my all.” Shweta had applied to three universities to study mechanical engineering or astrophysics. * Nikhar Ganesh, 19, of Northwood Boys’ High School, said he felt confident despite the disruptions. “I revise from between three to five hours after school, and about five hours on the weekend. If I continue to maintain this study routine then I should be ready by November.” Nikhar wants to pursue a career as a screenwriter or director. * Muhammad Siddeeq Ayoob, 17, of Clairwood Secondary School, feared he would not be fully prepared. “I am scared because we have lost a lot of time away from the classroom and spent more time studying on our own. For many pupils, online lessons were not an option because not everyone could afford to buy data. I don’t feel I will be ready for the finals.” Muhammad, who wants to study bioengineering, questioned whether teachers would be able to complete the syllabus and do revision. * Yashwani Reddi, 17, of Westville Girls’ High School, said: “There was mixed emotion when I saw the timetable. I fear writing the examinations as I may not be prepared because of all the disruptions. “Also, one tends to lose focus at times because of the fears around the pandemic. I am going to try to remain focused and study as hard as possible.” Yashwani wants to study journalism. * Shrimay Manilal, 17, of Reservoir Hills Secondary School, said: “After all the uncertainty and conflict between the Department of Basic Education and other school bodies, it was good to know that the 2020 NSC exams will be written this year. “This also means that the pressure is on. It is crunch time.” Shrimay wants to pursue a social science degree majoring in physics and maths. He wants to become a theoretical physicist and contribute to innovation. * Jared Ashleigh Naicken, 18, of BirdsView Academy in Richards Bay, said: “There is a great deal of pressure but that pushed me to study harder on a daily basis. “I can safely say that through prayer, I am ready for my final examinations. Having a positive mindset and focus have been some of the key factors during this time.” Jared wants to study medicine. POST