Zainul Dawood and Winston Mfeka Durban - The WELBEDACHT community in Durban’s Chatsworth has taken to the streets to protest against alleged brute force being used by a private taxi violence unit. Since Monday, the community has barricaded Welbedacht East Road leading into the community. It is alleged the unit shot a community member on Sunday afternoon. The Durban metro police and SAPS Public Order Policing units cleared the roads and dispersed the protesters. Saps spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Chatsworth police station was investigating cases of murder, attempted murder and public violence following the incident. “A shooting occurred between the suspects and a private taxi violence security company after a dispute, resulting in the fatal shooting of a 28-year-old man in Welbedacht East. “Thereafter, the community began protesting.” Welbedacht committee chairperson Siyabonga Bhala said the fight with the Chatsworth minibus taxi association began on Monday. He said residents were appealing to the association to withdraw the security unit from the area. “The security is becoming too aggressive with the community.” Kwanele Ncalane, spokesperson for the Department of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, said it was concerning that taxi-related violence had claimed another life. “We condemn the incident and blatant lack of respect for people’s lives. MEC Bheki Ntuli will take a strong position on associations that perpetuate violence. We’ve resolved to roll out actions which will be detailed later this week, to address this scourge that is putting people’s lives at risk.” SA National Taxi Council KZN manager Sifiso Shangase said he was disturbed by the incident and appealed for an end to violence in the industry. “We extend our deepest sympathies to the deceased’s family and state that we as an organisation do not encourage violence. The use of firearms to solve conflicts only leads to bloodshed. We hope any disputes can be solved in an amicable manner so that we can overcome the scourge of violence.” Late yesterday, the Chatsworth minibus taxi association and representatives of the Welbedacht community were locked in a meeting to find a way forward. Daily News