 Durban - A Westville man has been applauded on social media for shooting dead two home invaders and critically injuring one on Wednesday morning. A fourth escaped. “Give this man an order of Ikhamanga or something”, “Well done to the homeowner”, “...this man deserves a medal...”, “Job well done, give him a Bells” and many more comments of praise were heaped on the homeowner. Leizel Daniels said: “Awesome, what gives them the right to intrude, inconvenience and to try their luck hurting or even killing the innocent who work and actually earn an honest living? They see their fate, well done to the bravery of the homeowner who got rid of the scumbags in the community!” Chrizanne Smith said: “Yes! As a mom of three young kids, raising them in a country that has no regard for my safety, but so much regard for criminals, I say BIG UPS to this person!” Moeketsi Keke Nhlapo said: “At least there’s evidence of a ‘gun fight’. They were armed, they were shooting, and he defended himself and his family.” Anusha Ramdin said: “Unfortunately two succumbed to the wounds and didn’t make it! It’s supposed to read fortunately two dead and more innocent lives saved. Well done to the homeowner.” Westville Community Police Forum (CPF) chairperson Asad Patel said it appeared four men entered a home in the area, assaulted the family and attempted to kill one. The homeowner then used his legal firearm to defend himself and the family, and a shoot-out ensued. “Two suspects were killed on the scene. One was critically wounded and he’s in hospital under police guard,” said Patel adding that the fourth, believed to be the gunman in the group, escaped. He said the family did not sustain gunshot wounds, but were injured in the assault. Patel said the Westville policing precinct was rife with petty and serious crime which were increasing. He encouraged residents to secure their surroundings and be alert. Residents should be more vigilant, join patrol groups and neighbourhood watches, and work with the CPF, he said. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said charges of robbery and attempted murder, and an inquest docket had been opened. Ward councillor Warren Burne said a white Polo was apparently used in the home invasion. He hoped the police would be able to make good use of the leads they might get from the suspect in custody to put an end to home invasions and violence. “It is most regrettable and unfortunate these things happen. There seem to be lots of reports of a white Polo being involved in criminal activities in different parts of the city. I’ve also heard that there might be two vehicles used for a succession of incidents in different parts of the city,” said Burne. Garrith Jamieson of Red Line Response said their paramedics arrived to find three men with multiple gunshot wounds. “Unfortunately two males had sustained fatal injuries. One male sustained multiple gunshot wounds and is in a critical condition,” he said. Daily News