Durban - THE lives of Omar and Asma Ismail have been completely changed. The couple and their 21-month-old daughter, Yusraa, were caught in the crossfire between the police and hijackers last month. Omar, 30, who works at an accounting firm, was shot in the head. His pregnant wife, Asma, 26, a medical technologist, was in the back seat with Yusraa. She was shot in her legs. Her right leg was amputated because she had lost a lot of blood and suffered severe tissue, muscle and bone damage. Her unborn baby was unharmed. Yusraa was grazed by bullets on her arm and stomach. The shoot-out happened about two minutes away from their home in Sheringham Road, Overport. Since the incident, the couple have moved in with Asma’s mother, Rehana Mahomed. Her father, Omar Farouk, said: “Asma is still adjusting to her leg being amputated and is using a wheelchair. Their home had to be renovated to ensure it’s wheelchair-friendly. The bathroom had to be fitted with steel bars for her to hold on to when she used the facilities.” Farouk said Omar needed to see a neurologist for an update on his progress. “They are recovering. But life will never be the same. It is difficult for them to adjust because they were independent.” Soon after the incident, Mohamed said her daughter and son-in-law, who married four years ago, were excited about the new baby. She said the couple planned to move to Abu Dhabi for better employment opportunities once the lockdown and travel bans were lifted. “Their lives were just taking shape, and this had to happen,” she said. The couple were still waiting for feedback on the case. Colonel Thembeka Mbele, a provincial police spokesperson, said the police were conducting crime-prevention duties when they received information that five suspects had tried to hijack a couple in Sheringham Road. “Police approached the suspects and a shoot-out ensued. The suspects fled the scene. A case of attempted murder and attempted hijacking was opened at Mayville police station.” Mbele said a firearm with its serial number filed off was recovered at the scene. “No arrests have been made. Police are still investigating.” POST