Durban - ARTIFICIAL intelligence (AI) can be used to improve pupil attendance at schools, according to a study by a Durban researcher based at De Montfort University in Leicester, in the UK. AI is when the theory and development of computer systems are able to perform tasks that normally require human intelligence. Dr Raymond Moodley, 47, formerly of Phoenix, led the team study at the Institute of Artificial Intelligence at De Montfort, which came up with an AI model to help improve attendance. The proposed model was used to analyse a UK-based primary school’s attendance data to identify patterns relating to pupils who were frequently absent. They found that Monday morning was the most common time for absenteeism, with potential reasons including separation anxiety, taking extended weekend breaks, and a lack of motivation to attend school after time off. To improve the attendance, the researchers developed a two-pronged approach. First, they increased the frequency and value of rewards given for full attendance, holding monthly raffles with prizes for those children who had not missed a day of school during that month. Then, they introduced a Monday Matters initiative, giving pupils fun activities to look forward to on their first day back after the weekend. As a result of these measures, the school achieved the UK required national average attendance of 96% - for the first time in four years. They also saw an improvement in persistent absenteeism, which improved by more than 55% compared with a year ago. Moodley said it was well recognised that pupils who were persistently absent typically had the weakest performance at school, both in the UK and globally. “Persistent absenteeism is also higher for those children from disadvantaged backgrounds. “Therefore, reducing persistent absenteeism is one way of enhancing the life outcomes of disadvantaged pupils and closing the economic gap.” The bulk of Moodley’s research deals with searching for hidden patterns and developing new ways to search for hidden patterns in large and complex data. While the patterns were important, he said it was almost impossible to find them without the use of AI techniques. “These patterns could include the cure for cancer, or the solution to climate change, or things we could do to live happier and longer.” He said he chose to focus on school attendance, as he believed education was the foundation for the future. “There’s a wealth of evidence that shows that a society that is more educated is a society that is more prosperous (happier and healthier).” But attendance, he said, was just one aspect when it came to a school’s overall performance. “We also want to look at other factors that impact pupil performance and outcomes in later life. “These include motivations for choosing subjects, particularly girls in Stem (science, technology, engineering and maths), behavioural management, and optimising the learning environment - such as the classroom layout, timetable design and so on.” Moodley and his colleagues were now developing an easy-to-use AI-enabled absenteeism diagnostic tool that will eventually be available for schools across the world to download. Schools will be able to upload their own attendance data from their attendance recording systems and gain insights into their attendance, using the AI models. He said challenges were similar in most countries, so research and conclusions would have universal applicability, including in South Africa. His team hopes to make the technology freely available through the internet to any school or community that wants to use it. “It will, in essence, be a computer program with all the relevant ‘how to use’ guides. We will also create YouTube videos, etc, to help people get the most of the tool. “The tool and the process is surprisingly simple, yet the results and outcome were fantastic for the school that we worked with. We believe that other schools will benefit as well. We hope to launch this tool in early 2021.” Moodley grew up in Phoenix and attended Avonford Secondary, where he pursued his love for maths and science. He continued to harness that passion by studying chemical engineering at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. After graduating, he left Durban to pursue mining research and chemical engineering and, in 2006, moved to the UK to not only expand his career but see the world. Moodley left with his wife and two young daughters. “The move was prompted by a desire to become more global. Our world is beautiful and diverse, and we wanted both us and our children to experience and appreciate more of it, more easily and Europe was ideal, given its location, diversity and history.” Moodley worked on the research alongside colleagues Professor Francisco Chiclana, Dr Fabio Caraffini and Dr Mario Gongora. They are part of a research interest group called RiSE (Research in Societal Enhancement) and their mission is to use their knowledge of AI and collaborate with other teams globally to tackle problems that impact society. “We recently completed a project in the UK that showed that up to 25% of the UK could have avoided the lockdown during Covid-19 and kept economically active using protective cordons.” They are engaged in projects that will enhance medical diagnoses, such as liver and kidney diseases, tracking and finding diseases in large agricultural crops, crime prevention, and detecting improvised explosive devices and landmines. Moodley, who has most of his loved ones living in Durban, plans to return and give back to the community that, he said, had given him so much. POST