Yogan Devan OPINION - Why do we yearn for the good old days whenever we look at pictures from yesteryear that make their rounds on social media? There are scenes of old Durban when the streets and beaches were clean and less crowded. Double-decker buses in West Street. Long queues outside cinemas screening blockbuster movies. Yo-yos, hopscotch and hula hoops. Fountain pens. Ice-cream trucks. Shiny, big Chevy cars that guzzled petrol but it did not matter at 9cents a litre in 1970 - or R4.50 to fill the tank. Lucky dips. Chappies bubblegum. Cobra floor polish. Welcome Dover coal stove. The typewriter. Psychologists say that the belief that things are worse than they used to be is a delusion. If you are feeling anxious about the times we live in, bar the current coronavirus pandemic, it turns out we are not doomed after all. It’s just a trick of the mind. After all, we are overall richer, healthier and longer-living than ever before. It is most reassuring that life is better now than before. But as a lifelong sufferer of nostalgia, I can’t help feeling rather defensive. While there may have been progress on many fronts, I also lament the loss of many things from my youth - front doors left unlocked; washing left on the clothes line to dry overnight; trust in the police and respect for teachers; building carts with ball-bearing wheels; visiting the Warwick Avenue market on Saturday mornings; the morning milkman; seaside picnics with sardine sandwiches; and giving hugs on birthdays instead of posting a message on Facebook. There is no cure for nostalgia. It is an emotional strategy; something comforting to snuggle up to when the present day seems intolerably bleak. When you have to pay R10 for a loaf of bread, you hanker for the days when it cost just 10 cents and was more nourishing. When there is load shedding, your mind goes back to the days when the lights went off just once or twice in a whole year. With age on my side, I now have a better understanding of history. I know about the evils of apartheid. The pain caused by the Group Areas Act, the Immorality Act and the Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act. I know about the evils of colonialism. I’m glad we live in a more unrestricted and democratic age. Yet still, I feel strangely patriotic towards the olden days. In days gone by, things were built to last. Light bulbs were not changed for years on end. Unlike today, electrical appliances did not fail a week after the guarantee expired. From a historical standpoint, things are objectively better now. There are fewer wars, world hunger is at an all-time low, people are more educated now, there have been huge leaps in medicine and technology that have extended and improved the quality of life, many diseases have been eradicated and we’re connected to one another no matter where we are, thanks to the internet. In South Africa, we are living through one of the best times in the country’s history. We have a Constitution that safeguards human rights of all people; there are fewer informal homes; more people have electricity, running water and proper sanitation; more students are attending university; and the middle class has increased considerably. Yet, I find myself constantly saying to my children that “back in my days” music was better, food tasted better, no one stared at their phones all day, toothpaste tubes were longer and kids could roam the streets from sunup to sundown. It’s fairly easy to fabricate memories, or at least to remember only the good and forget the bad. Were toothpaste tubes really longer? Was food really tastier? But never mind the answers, nostalgia is good because it reveals a longing for home, which includes all things that make us feel love and fulfilment. Memory is the lens through which we gaze into the future. Our past experiences, emotions and observations shape our future thoughts and actions. During the lockdown, I have had more time to go through old storage boxes, spending hours looking at old letters, birthday cards and photographs. Reminiscing can be one of life’s true, unpredictable and thrilling delights, for with it can come realisation: how far you have come and how much you have changed or haven’t. Harking back to the past also reflects the present and your hopes for the future. It is important to force yourself to remember the past - recalling details or dates, faces, or feelings. This is what keeps the mind active and alert. Rather than relying on our brains, we rely too much on email search tools for past conversations, Google for old recipes and remedies, and Facebook for people we used to know. We need to be careful that the pages of our memory diaries are not all blank. It is necessary to keep the memory bank running all the time. Before the lockdown, a few friends who are retired journalists and I would meet once a month over drinks and a meal. The conversations would be electric as we discussed experiences and our shared history. The more we talked and laughed, the more we remembered, and before we knew it, four hours had passed, and yet it felt like we had just sat down. Memory is the foundation of culture and identity, and our enhanced capacity for memory is what separates us from all other living creatures. Identity is rooted in knowing and remembering our origin and history, whether it be that of an individual, a family, an institution or a country. And identity and meaning are strengthened when we gather and share our stories. So, I say enjoy your memories. Check out your old family photos and videos and tell stories with old friends. Visit old relatives and ask questions about the good old days. Visit your childhood haunts. Take a Sunday afternoon drive to your primary school. Then take that energy and those happy feelings and live the sort of amazing day today that, a year from now, you can look back on with nostalgia. Devan is a media consultant and social commentator. Share your comments with him on yogind@meropa.co.za POST