OPINION - CONTROVERSY has kept close company with Zandile Gumede throughout her political life. It was no different when, last week, she was sworn in as a member of the KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Legislature. The former mayor of eThekwini seemed in good spirits during the swearing-in ceremony which was broadcast live on Facebook. However, not everyone was happy. Those who have criticised her appointment did so on the basis that she has been charged with fraud and corruption and is on bail of R50 000. They also point to the fact that she was removed as mayor on the basis that she had not done a good enough job. The DA said the move was “a slap in the face” for everyone in KwaZulu-Natal who would have to pay for Gumede’s package of more than R1million a year. The IFP Women’s Brigade described her appointment as “unfortunate, shameful and disgraceful”. The Allied Movement for Change said her appointment was another example of the ANC’s disregard for leading with integrity, honesty and transparency. The EFF noted Gumede’s new position “with disgust”. The party accused the ANC of being a party that “values thuggery and thievery by awarding those who are always (on) the wrong side of the law with a token of appreciation for a job well done”. The SACP, which is in an alliance with the governing ANC, said it was “baffled, disappointed and flabbergasted” and had not been consulted about Gumede’s appointment. Some congratulated Gumede. Duduzane Zuma, son of ex-president Zuma, tweeted: “Congratulations Mama uZandile Gumede, your appointment is indeed a win for women (during) Women’s Month”. In a subsequent video, he said Gumede was innocent until proven guilty. “That’s the basis that the courts of law work on and that’s a basis we should all respect”. He is right. Under our law, a person is innocent until proven guilty and that includes Gumede. A major problem in our country is the fact that it takes too long for legal matters to be finalised. Criminal trials can drag on for years before the accused is either found guilty or acquitted. This has implications for all those affected. We know that the capacity of the police and the National Prosecuting Authority was compromised during the Zuma years. But in recent times, millions of rand have gone into strengthening both entities. When Shamila Batohi was appointed the National Director of Public Prosecutions there was hope that she would turn things around. But 18 months later, we are yet to see any significant changes. Perhaps it is time to rethink the way our criminal justice system works? We know that the wheels of justice turn slowly. But these days they seem to hardly turn at all. As a result, it undermines the lives of people as well as their faith in justice. Ultimately, it weakens our democracy and that’s not good. POST