THANDEKA MGQIBI Durban - VENISHREE Mayer is the first Indian South African woman to produce extra virgin olive oil. From humble beginnings in the small sugar cane village of Darnall in the Ilembe District, Mayer is now a multi-award-winning oil producer and the owner of Fraaigelegen Farm in the Cape Winelands. Her brand, Adhara Evoo premium extra virgin olive oil, was launched in 2018 and has won an award from the South Africa Olive Association. She said winning the award felt like a stamp of approval. “Being the first Indian woman in South Africa to be actively involved in the industry is groundbreaking,” said Mayer. She said she was acutely aware of the high rate of heart-related diseases, diabetes and arthritis within the Indian community. Olive oil, which she referred to as liquid gold, must become a staple in Indian kitchens because of its health benefits, she said. “These include it being a rich source of antioxidants; it reduces the risk of heart disease and it is good for both skin and hair.” The 51-year-old said olive oil was a great help to her mother, 83, who has Parkinson’s disease, arthritis and diabetes. “She is still strong as she includes olive oil in her diet.” The youngest of four siblings, Mayer is a third-generation Indian South African. “My dad, Mannie Gouden, worked at the Tongaat Hulett Sugar Mill for 40 years doing two jobs in order to earn additional income to feed our family. “He was also a talented musician and a board member of the local Hindu Temple Association for many years. He created and produced annual shows full of dance and theatre. My mum, Amoy Gouden, was a part-time Tamil schoolteacher. My parents were my heroes as they were significantly involved in the community, while my siblings were my mentors.” She said that education was a priority for her parents. In 1986, she matriculated from Stanger Secondary School and went on to enrol for an honours degree in law at Natal University. She graduated in 1991. After graduating, Mayer was offered an opportunity to join Mercedes-Benz South Africa’s (MBSA) graduate programme. She moved into the automotive industry and worked in sales and marketing at its head office in Pretoria. “I realised that marketing and sales were my forte. I was determined to develop my career further and head to the corporate headquarters in Germany.” During the graduate programme, she met her husband, Juergen, who was also completing his internship at MBSA. She said Juergen was the grandson of the first winemaker in the German Rhineland-Palatinate region where he grew up. After his internship, he studied international business in Berlin and Cambridge and Mayer moved to the UK city to join him a few months later. “At that time, it was difficult to get a job in the UK without a residence permit. I joined Oxfam in Cambridge on a voluntary basis in their marketing and sales team.” They got married and have a daughter, Sudarsha. In 1997, Mayer rejoined the automotive industry when they moved to Germany. She joined General Motors Europe’s European Graduate Programme. Over the years she has worked for many automotive manufacturers. She said she and her husband, 53, had successful and established careers in Europe but they had always wanted to run a guest house or travel the world. “So in 2015, after Sudarsha went to university, Juergen and I resigned from our corporate roles. He worked at Chevrolet Germany as the head of product marketing for the DACH countries (Germany, Austria and Switzerland) and I was the global head of communications for TE Connectivity (a technology company that designs and manufactures connectivity and sensor products in the US).” Mayer said they began a spontaneous road trip through seven European countries. The plan to return to South Africa originated a few years earlier, she said. However, the desire increased after tragically losing four close family members from 2010 to 2015 and her mother being diagnosed with diabetes and Parkinson’s disease. Mayer said she knew it was critical that she spent quality time with her family. “It was time to be selfless and to also do something different, maybe run a guest house, live life, redirect and rejuvenate.” So in December 2015, the couple arrived in South Africa, leaving 29-year old Sudarsha, who is now involved in content marketing management in Germany, behind. “When we arrived in the country, we viewed properties and that’s when we instantly fell in love with Fraaigelegen Farm in Tulbagh - a 20-hectare wine and olive estate.” They bought the farm, taking ownership in March 2016. Mayer referred to herself as an accidental farmer - they were looking to buy a guest house, not a farm. The transition from the corporate world to farming was a learning curve, “fuelled by passion, determination with mistakes and failures” she said. “The farm was severely run down. Much of our savings went into restoring the vineyards and olive groves and the accommodation business.” However, Fraaigelegen Farm is now a successful agri-tourism destination in Tulbagh, though, like other businesses, it was impacted by the Covid-19 lockdown. “Harvesting was done under highly restrictive circumstances with a very small team, which meant it was all hands on deck, and we, ourselves, had to pitch in. It was hard physical work and it was a matter of keeping the team motivated. Additionally, as a small business, we had to understand recent shifts in consumer behaviour and how that would play out in the longer term to better position companies for growth in the recovery.” Asked about the name Adhara, Mayer said that it took inspiration from the binary star Adhara, one of the brightest stars visible during the time of the olive harvest. Adhara Evoo is available for sale in South Africa with nationwide deliveries. The Mayers also recently launched Cape Goods online shop in Germany, with the aim of bringing quality extra virgin olive oils of South Africa to Europe. Adhara Evoo is now shipped and sold online in Germany. “The plan is to extend the portfolio with authentic, premium goods from South Africa, like wine, tea, decor, etc. Next on the list is the launch of our very own wine label.” On July 31, Adhara Evoo won best design in Africa at the Olio Nuovo 2020 Southern Hemisphere Competition in Paris and Abu Dhabi. Adhara Evoo was entered for the 2020 SA Olive Competition, the results of which will be announced at the end of the month. POST