AUTHOR and former journalist Vanessa Tedder named radio jock Fahim Jamadar as her alleged abuser during a recent online discussion on gender-based violence (GBV) and the law. In her memoir, Beaten but not Broken, published two years ago, the former journalist wrote about an abusive relationship that lasted five years. She said that her alleged abuser was a popular radio DJ at Lotus FM. The radio station is owned by the SABC, where Tedder (* ée Govender) worked at the time. However, in the book, Tedder did not name her alleged abuser. Earlier this month, she was part of an online discussion hosted by Jacana Media, in partnership with Tears Foundation, when she revealed that the jock was Jamadar. The discussion looked at the legal issues that arose when GBV survivors named and charged their alleged perpetrators years after the abuse had occurred. Tedder was joined by Lerato Moloi, a model and GBV survivor; Zanele Mbuyisa, a legal expert; and Sithembile Mbete, a senior political science lecturer at the University of Pretoria. The married mother of three broke into tears as she named Jamadar as her alleged perpetrator. She said that despite having access to influential people at that time, she did not reach out for help. “From government officials, ministers and high-profile police officers, I had the resources and still failed to ask for help back then largely because of shame, largely because of fear; who is going to believe me?” Tedder asked during the online discussion. She said at the time she never thought of documenting the physical injuries. “Those were the fundamental mistakes I made. I cannot undo that. I cannot go back in time and change that. But going forward, and it is such a cold calculating thing to say, but you have to document everything. You’ve got to leave a trail.” Tedder said over the past few years she was encouraged to speak out. “But I am still not fully there I haven’t said that I was in a relationship with Fahim Jamadar, from 1999 until 2005. The man punched me. He beat me. He kicked me because I have been afraid of saying that name. I have been afraid of saying that name and it’s not my fear and it’s not shame. “He never had any repercussions or thoughts for what the police would do, or what the legal system would do for him. I am sitting here day in and day out worried about saying that God-forsaken name and I am done with that. “I owe it to myself to let go and to move on. And for as long as I have not been saying his name, I have been trapped and I know what is going to come after this I dare him and challenge him to take me on. You know what you did to me and it’s not my job to protect you any more.” Speaking to the POST this week, Tedder said it was inevitable and only a matter of time when she would name her alleged abuser. “I chose to campaign for women to break the cycle of silence and shed the shame and fear when I first shared my own story of abuse two years ago.” Tedder said instead of asking survivors “why now?”, the question that should be asked is “why is it so difficult for women to speak out?” “Because asking someone ‘why now’ in itself aims to gaslight the survivor and undermine the trauma of that person. Once you understand how intrinsically difficult it is for women to get help, then you can appreciate why some never bother reporting their abuse, let alone speak out about it.” She added: “We are dealing with a genocide on women in this country. Abusive men, misogyny and patriarchy are all poisons that must be dealt with.” Tedder said she had been consulting her lawyer. “I feel like I have finally been able to stand up for myself. Fear is a terrible and debilitating thing that has gagged thousands of women from ever speaking out, walking away, or seeking justice. This is a war that demands men and women act. “The responsibility to fight this has fallen on me and it was never by choice. Men need to understand that the days of women being silenced are over and that we will no longer be the guardians of the secrets of their abuse.” LEAVE MY FAMILY ALONE: JAMADAR’S WIFE RESPONDS “Leave my family alone!” That’s the response from the wife of Fahim Jamadar to Vanessa Tedder after she named Jamadar as her abuser. In a statement to POST, Zakiyah said she had known Jamadar for the past 25 years and was married to him for the past 10 years. She said during this time, she had not endured any abuse from him and neither had their children. She said she found the allegations Tedder had made “absurd”. “I am a financially independent woman who has been working in the corporate sector for close to two decades and am a strong advocate for speaking out on all issues facing women in South Africa, especially gender-based violence. Had this been the case with me, there is no doubt that I would have spoken up. “If this individual was genuinely concerned about women, surely she would have first reached out to me, the wife of her alleged abuser, instead of trying to make this a public spectacle? “It is also strange that the women who are showing support to her sensational story have not bothered to reach out to me, to verify his character and ask if I was all right. Is it activism or sensationalism that you are seeking? “For those who are asking now, I am happily married and safe with my husband. “There is no evidence or criminal charges against him, yet every few months you bring this up again and give him a trial via social media. My kids and I don’t know you and have nothing to do with you, yet we are now facing harassment because of your social media rants. Please leave my family alone and (I) would suggest you focus on yours.” Jamadar, who posted a “Memorandum – Notice to All” on Facebook on Monday, said he planned to take legal action. “Having carefully considered the defamatory false allegation and lies by the individual, I place on record that the comments contained therein are absurd, to say the least, and total fabrication. “Without being disrespectful, it is very evident that the individual who made these false allegations and defamatory comments against my good name and reputation either has a personal vendetta, or is simply obsessed and cannot leave me alone.” Jamadar said he was “highly disappointed and disgusted” by the conduct. “I have elected to engage with my legal team to take legal action against the individual or any individual that perpetrates defamation, hate speech or harassment. “It must be noted that I will not tolerate any such conduct under Any circumstances, and perpetrators will be punished in accordance with the law of the Republic of SA for thei R offences.” He thanked “the scores of people who have supported me and continue to do so”. EUGENE PERUMAL Eugenie Perumal, a Durban attorney, said in such a situation whereby an alleged victim of abuse named his or her alleged perpetrator/s after a long period of time and with no formal charges been opened, both parties would be able to pursue legal action. “Section 18 of the Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977 allows for criminal charges to be instituted 20 years after the offence has been committed. So the victim would have the option of charging his/her alleged perpetrator even now. “However, the individual who has now been named as the alleged perpetrator, without a formal charge being investigated and appearing before a court, would have legal recourse in the form of a defamation claim against the alleged victim,” she said. POST