Durban - UNDERTAKERS in Chatsworth are angry with staff at Life Chatsmed Garden Hospital for not allowing them to collect the bodies of those who have died from Covid-19, and complained that it was hurting their businesses. However, the hospital said that it was following guidelines provided by the Department of Health. Isipingo Funeral Services director Dhayalan Moodley said for the past three months his company had been struggling to collect the bodies of people who had died from Covid-19. When asked why staff were not allowed to do so, they were apparently told this was the instruction received from hospital management. Moodley said the situation had also had an impact on their clients. “Families are becoming frustrated that they can’t use the undertakers of their choice,” he said. Undertakers were frustrated because while many people were dying from Covid-19, they were being restricted by rules that were “seemingly made up”. Another undertaker, who asked not to be named, said their clients were being referred to other undertakers. “It’s not right, as our clients are going to other undertakers. This only happened at Chatsmed. We did not have any issues at other health-care facilities,” he said. He felt that hospital staff should not be interfering with undertakers that collected the bodies. He said a client’s mother died two weeks ago from Covid-19-related complications, and later the client also died from the disease, and staff had had problems in collecting the bodies. “I would have understood if we were not a registered undertaker, but this is not the case,” he said. Hospital manager Musa Madonsela said they allowed undertakers who were approved by the Department of Health to collect the bodies of the deceased. “The Department of Health in KZN has provided all the hospitals in the province with a list of undertakers who have been accredited and approved to collect and manage the remains of Covid-19 patients. “We follow the guidelines issued by the department and cannot release bodies to undertakers that are not included on the approved list. We contact the department to check the necessary accreditation and approval if the undertakers’ names do not appear on the list.” Madonsela said approved undertakers were provided with personal protective equipment if they did not have their own, and then with the help of nurses, they prepared the bodies according to guidelines provided by the department. The Daily News has tried for the past week to seek clarity from both the provincial and national health departments on what criteria were used to select accredited undertakers for each hospital. Neither departments had responded by the time of publication. Daily News