Durban - SEVEN candidates have been shortlisted to replace Thembekile Kimi Makwetu who is preparing to vacate his position as South Africa’s auditor-general (AG). Makwetu has been the auditor-general since 2013. His term will end in November. From 71 applications, Parliament’s ad hoc committee on the appointment of the auditor-general shortlisted seven candidates last week. They are: Tsakani Maluleke: She is a qualified chartered accountant and joined the auditor-general’s office in 2012. Maluleke is the deputy auditor-general and serves as a non-executive chairperson of the board of the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants. She has more than 20 years of experience in both the private and public sector, having worked at Deloitte, Izingwe Holdings and the Energy and Water Sector Education and Training Authority. Maluleke was previously the chief executive of the Office of the Auditor-General of South Africa - a first for a woman in the company. She also served on the Presidential BEE Advisory Council, to advise the government on the implementation of the BEE Act and policy. Maluleke is passionate about the advancement of black men and women in the accountancy profession. Zakariya Hoosain: He is a qualified chartered accountant with more than 20 years of experience in financial management and audit in the public and private sectors. Hoosain is contracted to short-term appointments on various projects, including the Overberg District Municipality, as chief risk officer. He is completing his Master’s in development policy and practice at UCT’s Mandela School of Public Governance. Hoosain is a member of the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants and Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors. He was the head of the provincial Treasury in the public sector in the Western Cape. Shabeer Khan: Khan, a registered government auditor and chartered accountant, is the chief financial officer at the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition and a member of its executive board. He is also a non-executive director of Coega Development Corporation, an audit committee member of the SA Bureau of Standards and the Export Credit Insurance Corporation of South Africa. Khan is a member of the Special Economic Zone Funding Committee and this year he was nominated by CFO SA for public sector chief financial officer of the year. He was also nominated for young CFO of the year in 2016 and CFO of the year in 2015. Between 2004 and 2013 he was employed as a senior engagement manager at the Auditor-General South Africa (Agsa). Dr Moses Gasela: Gasela holds a chartered accountant qualification from the UK and has a PhD in finance. He is the chief financial officer in the Office of the Premier in the Northern Cape. Gasela previously worked in the Eastern Cape provincial Treasury and as finance director in the Justice Department. Michael Sass: He is the chief financial officer at the National Health Laboratories Services and the chairperson of the Audit Committee, Joburg Market. Before that he was an independent contractor. Sass, who has more than 30 years’ experience, was previously the accountant-general of South Africa. He has a Master’s degree in commerce and is a chartered accountant and certified internal auditor. Sass previously held senior positions at Morvest, Business Innovations Group, Grant Thornton, Verimark and the Automobile Association, among others. He served as the National Treasury representative on several boards, including the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors and the Accounting Standards Board. Edmond Shoko-Lekuleni: Shoko-Lekuleni is a board member of the Hlanganisa Institute for Development in Southern Africa (HiDSA) and PharmaConnect Africa. He holds chartered accountant qualifications from the UK and has an MBA  in business strategy and an LLM in international commercial law. At present he the manager at AFROSAI-E. In 2014 he was appointed manager at Agsa. He is a non-executive director at HiDSA. He is also a member of the Public Finance International Advisory Panel established by the UK-based Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy. Rachel Kalidass: She is a chartered accountant with 25 years’ experience in internal and external auditing, financial management, business process review, corporate governance and risk management. Kalidass is the managing director of R Kalidass and Associates, a practice of chartered accountants and registered auditors. She is also a member of the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants, Independent Regulatory Board of Auditors, the Institute of Internal Auditors, and Institute of Directors. Kalidass previously served on the audit committee of the National Youth Development Agency as the independent audit committee chairperson and was a non-executive director of the Gauteng Partnership Fund, serving on the audit and risk committee and the human resources and remuneration committee. Kalidass is a former board member of the SABC, SA National Parks and Free State Gambling and Liquor Authority, among others. The public has until Friday to comment on the candidates by emailing committee secretary Peter-Paul Mbele at pmbele@parliament.gov.za POST