Durban - WHEN Krishna Allan Pillay heard multiple gunshots near his home in Blackburn Village near Mount Edgecombe on the KwaZulu-Natal North Coast last Wednesday, he went outside to see what was happening. Pillay, 44, was then confronted by a gunman who demanded money. When he did not hand over any cash, he was shot in the neck. He died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital. His brother, Gonaseelan Pillay, said his sibling died a hero. “Allan runs a tuckshop and a gaming shop on the same property as his home. He also provided scholar transport. When he heard the gunshots, he left his family to check on the children who were always at the game shop. He then saw a man with two guns randomly shooting in the air. The man approached my brother and asked for money. “Allan said he did not have money. The man responded that he felt like killing someone today. “Seconds later, he shot Allan in the neck and walked away.” Pillay said his sister-in-law, Rookasana, and the couple’s four children witnessed the murder. “They ran outside and called a relative to take Allan to hospital. His wound was severe and he later died.” Pillay said he questioned why the person shot his brother, a grandfather of two. “He just shot him without giving it a second thought, like a life meant nothing. One minute Allan and his family were happy together and the next he was cruelly taken away from them.” Pillay said that days before the shooting, his brother was preparing a birthday party for his grandson on Saturday. “Allan was going to cook and distribute breyani to the community. We made the meals but it was served at his funeral on Friday instead of at the party he planned for his grandson who turned 1.” He said the community was close to his brother’s heart. “We grew up in the area. Allan was well-known and respected. He promoted peace and harmony among residents and he did feeding distributions. “When parents were unable to pay for their children’s transport to and from school, Allan assisted them. During the lockdown, he also gave families food from the tuckshop. He told them that they could pay when they had money.” A resident, who declined to be named, said he did not believe the gunman was from the community. “We cannot allow people to just walk into our community and put our lives at risk. Allan was a good man and he should not have been killed. We need to implement crime-prevention strategies like community patrols and security.” Another resident said: “I heard the gunshots but I was scared to leave my home.” Councillor Nicole Bollman said she would meet residents to discuss forming a Community Police Forum. Soon after Pillay’s death, the body of a 29-year-old man, believed to be linked to the shooting, was found near the Cornubia Mall. He had a firearm on him. Prem Balram, of Reaction Unit South Africa, who responded to the incident at the mall, said: “Allan’s family came to the scene and identified the man as the shooter.” Colonel Thembeka Mbele, a police spokesperson, confirmed two cases of murder were being investigated by Verulam SAPS. “Police are investigating if both incidents are linked.” POST