Durban - ISLAMIC Relief has pledged R87million in emergency funding to help the people of Lebanon recover from the explosion in Beirut that claimed the lives of nearly 180 people and left 6000 more injured. Rescue workers continue to dig through the rubble as they look for more survivors. A UN report released on Friday said the explosion in the Port of Beirut had affected operations at six hospitals and damaged more than 20 clinics in parts of Beirut worst hit by the blast. “A preliminary rapid assessment within a 15km radius of the explosions revealed that, out of 55 medical facilities, only half are fully operational and around 40% suffered moderate to serious damage and need rehabilitation,” the report said. A total of 120 schools and 170000 residents’ apartments were damaged. While it is still unknown what caused the explosion, Michel Aoun, Lebanon’s president, believed the explosion was caused by 2750 tons of ammonium nitrate that was apparently stored unsafely at a warehouse in the port. This substance, combined with fuel oils, can become explosive. UN human rights experts have since called for a speedy independent investigation into the explosion. Protesters are also demanding the government be held accountable for the blast. Hassan Diab, the country’s prime minister, resigned on August 10 and the cabinet is overseeing decisions in the interim. Islamic Relief said hospitals were operating beyond their capacity to treat the wounded as more than 5000 people were admitted to different health facilities on the first day alone. Nidal Ali, Islamic Relief’s country director in Lebanon, said food insecurity was likely to intensify in the coming weeks as the country’s wheat stock for the next 18 months was stored in a warehouse near the port. “We are expecting bakeries to run out of flour within days, which will create a massive crisis.” He said while most people were able to find alternative temporary accommodation, the impoverished, especially labourers, had nowhere to go. “Our main goal right now is to provide food and water to those who need it urgently. We started distributing ready-to-eat meals, essential non-food items, hygiene kits and health assistance. “Our team was on the ground yesterday clearing the roads with volunteer groups, other aid organisations and many ordinary residents just doing what they can.” The funds pledged by Islamic Relief are expected to fund several projects. Islamic Relief Lebanon is aiming to provide 7500 people with food parcels for the next two months as well as non-food items such as lamps, fans, hygiene kits, tarpaulins and blankets for 10000 people. Naser Haghamed, chief executive of Islamic Relief Worldwide, said the explosion would have a long-term impact on the country and they were therefore working on plans to address longer-term development needs in Lebanon. “This includes rehabilitation and livelihood support that will aid the recovery of the Lebanese people and tackle the ongoing economic crisis and coronavirus outbreak.” Yusuf Mohamed, chief executive of Islamic Relief South Africa, said the incident occurred at the worst possible time. “Even before the Beirut explosion, thousands of families have been struggling to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and to put food on the table, with 50% of the Lebanese population living below the poverty line.” Islamic Relief was informed that medicines and Covid-19 supplies such as masks, gloves and personal protective equipment were stored in the port and were all destroyed during the explosion. The organisation is supporting hospitals by providing ready-to-eat snacks for patients and staff and has already distributed 10000 snacks. Mohamed thanked South Africans who donated to the emergency appeal over these past few days. “The people of Lebanon will need our continued support in the difficult weeks and months ahead, so we appeal to all who are able to donate to do so. Lebanon needs us now more than ever.” For more information, visit islamic-relief.org.za POST