Durban - DEATH has become costly, with the price of funerals increasing by as much as 25% since the lockdown. Manesh Govender, the president of the National Funeral Directors Association, said because of the rising Covid-19 deaths, it had to hike the prices of funerals to factor in the costs of personal protective equipment (PPE), sanitisation products and additional staff. He said some owners had increased the price of a funeral by as much as R2 500. “Prior to lockdown, families paid about R8 000 for a funeral. This included the coffin, burial or cremation fees, and for the transportation of the body. But now they are paying R10 000 or more,” said Govender, who owns Rand Funerals in Benoni, Gauteng. He said that since April, funeral parlour owners applied for loans or used their savings to buy PPE and sanitisation products in order to comply with the Covid-19 burial and cremation regulations. Some funeral parlours had hired additional staff. “Before the lockdown, the bulk of funerals were done during weekends, so the additional staff were only needed on these two days. But with the rising death toll, the weekend staff are now required to work during the weekdays as well. This means additional salaries need to be paid.” Govender said it received a directive from the Department of Health earlier this month, that anyone who died in their homes needed to be treated as Covid-19 patients. “We are waiting for the department to implement this directive. From what we understand, the body must be picked up from the home by a funeral parlour and taken to a mortuary for testing. Undertakers will have to treat the deceased as though he or she has Covid-19. They will need to wear full PPE and use body bags to transport the deceased.” He said the family would have to pay separately for the Covid-19 testing which could cost more than R1 500. “This amount is not included in the price hike of R2 500. “It is going to put additional strain on families in terms of finances. We have asked funeral parlours to use their discretion when charging families who have polices. If the additional PPE costs can be included with the policy payout amount, they should try their best to incorporate it in the package.” He said the association approached the Department of Health to supply it with PPE and sanitisation products but it had not received feedback. “Most of the Covid-19 funerals are burials due to the traditions of some cultures. The municipal burial and cemetery facilities have also increased by 10%. The private facility in Durban has not hiked prices but in Johannesburg, the private facilities are charging a Covid-19 handling fee.” Mlungisi Simeon Chiliza, the president of Africa Unite Funeral Directors Association, said: “This is a difficult time for families. Many people are out of work, some have taken salary cuts and others have been retrenched. As the death toll rises, the government needs to provide relief to funeral parlours for PPEs and sanitation products.” Chiliza said this would ease the financial strain on families. “Families have had to borrow money and take out loans to cover the additional costs, especially when more than one family member has died.” Koushik Maharaj, the owner of Newlands City Funeral Services, said he increased the price by R2 500. “I had no choice. Two people are required to remove the body and two people are required to handle the cremation or burial. Our PPE for staff performing these task includes a full coverall that is like a jumpsuit with a hood. It costs R135. They are also required to use an N95 mask that costs R62 and gloves.” Maharaj said they dressed in double PPE when fetching the body. “The first set of PPE is disposed of after they load the body onto our vehicle. The second set of PPE is disposed of after the body bag is placed into a coffin and the coffin sealed with cling wrap.” He said they were required to use the third set of PPE at the funeral. It was also disposed of once the body was cremated or buried. “The cost of these three sets amount to R700 per person a funeral. In addition, we buy a box of gloves that cost R250 and masks at R300 a box. This is distributed to the administration staff daily and it is also provided to families at the cremation or burial site. The priest and the family member doing the last rites are also provided with coveralls, a mask and gloves.” Maharaj said the cost of three body bags - two clear and one cover - to remove a deceased person with Covid 19 cost R500. “We also pay R150 for a 60m roll of cling wrap used to wrap a coffin. One roll is enough for about six coffins.” He said he had tried to incorporate the PPE charge into the package for families who have policies. “I am doing an average of 12 Covid-19 funerals a week. I have had to employ two more people to assist with the demand. Assistance from the government would ease the costs but I don’t see that happening.” Clive Moodley, the owner of Pinetown Funeral Services, said he also increased the price by R2 500 a funeral. “We are not making a profit from this increase. This is the cost we pay for PPE and sanitation products directly from our suppliers. For each funeral, two staff members are assigned to handle the body and the casket. They wear double PPE when fetching the body and another set for the funeral. This alone costs R2000. The R500 goes toward sanitisation products for our vehicle and the mourners as well as the cling wrap for the coffin, masks and gloves.” Moodley said he was doing up to 40 funerals a week throughout Durban. “Our funeral policy is between R20 to R25 a month. “It would be impossible for us to include the PPE charge.” Dhayalan Moodley, the owner of Isipingo Funeral Services, said he implemented a PPE charge of about R400. “We are doing about six Covid-19 related funerals a week. We had to include a PPE charge for the masks, gloves, coveralls and sanitation products. Before the lockdown, the average cost of funerals was R9 000 but now it can go up to about R15 000 or more.” He said he was trying his best to keep the charges at a minimum. Popo Maja, the national spokesperson for the Department of Health, said a decision on whether the department had the capacity to provide every funeral parlour in the country with PPEs had yet to be made. The eThekwini Municipality had not commented by the time of publication. POST