Durban - A DAMAGED brass prayer lamp, a clay lamp and a broken murthi of Hanuman were all that remained after a 105-year-old temple was demolished in Umbango, Port Shepstone, on Monday. Devotees watched as the Muthu Mariamman Kovil, which dates back to 1915, was demolished by a local businessman. It is believed that a shopping centre will be built on the site. Vanessa Pillay, whose grandparents built the temple, said: “They broke our temple. That’s our family legacy.” She said her grandparents, Yankama and Munusamy Reddy, originally built the temple in Albersville, in Port Shepstone, and that many devotees arrived daily to pray. “It was the Amman (Mother goddess) temple and they believed it was powerful.” In 1952, Pillay’s grandfather died. She claimed her grandmother unwittingly handed over the rights of the land. The matter subsequently went to court but her grandmother lost the case. “The new owner removed a few murthis from the temple and distributed them to other temples in Durban. My grandmother, who lived on the land was, however, stubborn. She refused to move. Then a man named Krish, who owned land in Umbango, offered to relocate the temple there. A prayer was held and the temple was relocated 63 years ago.” Her grandmother died in 1963 and Pillay’s eldest aunt, Freda Nagoo, took over the running of the temple in Umbango. When Nagoo died, the community cared for the temple. In 2017, Dr Mala Appalraju, the chairwoman of the Shri Mariamman Temple in Port Shepstone, dreamt about a temple near a shop she often visited. “In the dream, I heard Mother Mariamman calling out to me to dig her out from beneath the sand. “I did not understand the dream but I went to the shop a few days later and asked if there was a temple nearby. I was told that the temple was a community temple. However, the land that it was built on was in the process of being sold. “The owner told me that once the sale was over, I could approach the new owner for permission to take care of the temple,” said Appalraju. “Knowing the importance of the mother temple, we wanted to take over by getting the temple sponsored to us.” Last year, Appalraju found out that a local businessman had bought the land. “When I contacted him about the temple, he denied he owned the land.” In March this year, Appalraju said the temple committee noticed work being done on the land around the temple. She discovered that the new owner planned to demolish the temple. “I tried to negotiate with him. I even asked if we could purchase part of the land that the temple was on but he was not interested. Not knowing what to do, I put out a post on Facebook.” Pillay saw Appalraju’s plea for help on Facebook. “I recognised the pictures on Facebook and posted it in our family group,” said Pillay. “We knew it was the temple our grandparents started and we wanted to help. “I connected with Dr Appalraju and we tried everything to save the temple as it is one of the oldest in the country. We wanted to keep its legacy alive.” Last week, both women appealed to devotees of the Muthu Mariamman Kovil to submit affidavits to prove that the temple was still being used. “If we had affidavits, we could have interdicted the owner of the land from destroying the temple,” said Appalraju. However, on Monday morning, days after requesting the affidavits, the temple was destroyed. Appalraju said she went to the temple and watched as a bulldozer flattened everything. “It was sad. Devotees were crying and in shock as they watched the machine driving over the land. It was as though a temple had not even existed.” Pillay said: “I am devastated. They destroyed the temple.” Guru Keren Naidoo, presiding priest at the temple since 2015, said he was praying at home when he received a call that the temple was being demolished. “Devotees went to do prayer when they saw a bulldozer on the property. They called me. “When I arrived, I cried. Nothing was there. The murthies were buried and broken in the rubble. “I started digging and recovered what I could. This was a powerful temple. I have seen miracles take place here. “We are approaching Aadi Masam, a prayer for the mother, and to destroy her house and not do any prayer is not a good sign. I pray for forgiveness for the person who did this.” Aadi Masam is also known as the Mother Mariamman prayer which people popularly know as the “porridge prayer”. It is done to cure people of sickness. Ashwin Trikamjee, the president of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, said it would assist Appalraju with the matter. “A temple is sacred and it’s sad that this temple, with such a history, was destroyed,” said Trikamjee. He said he advised Appalraju to open a charge of malicious damage to property against the landowner. “Given the fact that the temple was on the property for over 30 years, by law of prescription the temple has a right over the land.” When contacted, the businessman denied that the land belonged to him. POST