Durban - MANGOSUTHU Buthelezi, the IFP founder and advocate of social cohesion, has been inundated with messages wishing him a speedy recovery after he tested positive for Covid-19. On Saturday, family spokesperson Dr Bhekuyise Ngqengelele Buthelezi said the veteran politician had come into contact with a positive case recently. He said Buthelezi, who turns 92 on August27, was not displaying any symptoms. “He is self-isolating at home for the mandatory period... We are pleased to say that he remains asymptomatic and is in good spirits. As a family, we have put in place a capable team to keep watch over the situation. We are aware that many families have journeyed this road of infection and the overwhelming majority have emerged to full recovery. We, therefore, thank you for your prayers as we await a good outcome.” His well-wishers, many of whom have issued statements and posted on social media, have described him as a man of integrity and discipline who has played an integral role in promoting social cohesion. During an event last May, Buthelezi said social cohesion was a building block for the country we wanted to create. He also spoke of his friendship with the late activist, Professor Fatima Meer, and as the chief minister of KwaZulu-Natal, he said he developed a friendship with Swami Sahajananda, the spiritual head of the Divine Life Society of South Africa. He often speaks about his appreciation for his friendship with the Lockhat family, whom he has known for several decades. “I have always admired the philanthropic generosity of this family,” Buthelezi had said. “In the toughest times of apartheid, the Lockhat brothers, through the Lockhat Family Trust, did tremendous work, building classrooms, teaching skills and uplifting communities.” AK Lockhat, a trustee of the Lockhat Charitable Trust, said his family’s relationship with Buthelezi went back more than 50 years. “Our families were involved in the building of schools in rural areas during apartheid. We also built the Elangeni College in Ndwedwe about 25 years ago. My late father, Yusuf, and Prince Buthelezi shared a close relationship. “He is a wonderful person, a true statesman. He has also maintained and built good relationships over the years. “We have attended his functions and also hosted him for dinner at our home in Cato Manor last year. We, together with the community, are all praying for his recovery.” AV Mohamed, chairperson of the Grey Street Mosque (Juma Musjid), said Buthelezi was a man of justice and peace, and believed in serving all communities. “I was one of three religious leaders to pray for him at his 90th birthday celebration at the Durban Exhibition Centre. It was such an honour. Last year, he attended one of the Friday prayers at the mosque. We wish him a speedy recovery and our prayers are with him.” Ashwin Trikamjee, the president of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, described Buthelezi as strong and disciplined. “He has taken all the necessary precautions such as self-isolating. We are confident he will overcome this pandemic in his life and we will continue to pray for him.” IFP Chief Whip Narend Singh said: “We are certain he will do whatever possible to ensure he recovers from this. He has also been active on his social media page and said he was remaining positive and taking each day in his stride. “We, as the party, have received many messages of goodwill from senior leaders of political parties and the community at large. As the party’s chief whip, together with the members of the IFP, we wish him a speedy recovery and he will be back at work soon.” Thandi Modise, National Assembly Speaker, and Amos Masondo, National Council of Provinces chairperson, have also extended their well-wishes. “Prince Buthelezi is one of the long-serving members of Parliament since the establishment of our democratic Parliament in 1994, and continues to serve as a reservoir of wisdom and experience for the institution “We are pleased to learn that he remains in high spirits and we are confident he will defeat this disease. “We urge South Africans to keep him and many others infected or affected by this virus in our prayers.” POST