Durban - The South African Post Office has launched an investigation after copies of South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) grant applications were found on the streets of Ndwedwe, north of Durban, over the Women’s Day long weekend. The documents were found by a Ndwedwe resident who called out Sassa on Facebook in a number of posts. The resident said he found the applications lying on the road next to Ndwedwe Post Office and Sassa offices. He also asked how a bunch of more than 100 grant applications would be thrown in a public road and were the documents not meant to be filed and kept safely. South African Post Office spokesperson Nobuhle Njapha said it was really puzzling as to how such sensitive information could be found scattered on the street, especially since the documents were kept in the lockable records room. “The matter was reported to SAPS and our security  for a thorough investigation whether internal or external as nothing can be ruled out at this moment,” said Njapha. She said SAPO apologised for the incident which showed negligence on their part but no stone would be left unturned. “We appeal to the public to come forward with any information that can assist SAPO in moving forward with its investigation, our crime buster hotline number is 0800 020 070,” said Njapha. Meanwhile, Sassa KZN spokesperson Sandy Godlwana confirmed that the documents were removed from SAPO and not their local Sassa office. Godlwana said they were informed that there was a burglary at the Post Office on August 10, which was next door to their Sassa local premises, but more seriously, the building was also set alight and burnt. “Seemingly those involved had taken lots of documents and paperwork within SAPO and whilst fleeing dropped lots of documents on the street and some of it relates to copies of identity documents and letters of awards of beneficiaries that Sassa as per normal procedure normally sends to SAPO when going to enrol for a new payment card for a client,” said Godlwana. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed the incident and said Ndwedwe SAPS were investigating a case of arson. Daily News