Professor Yousuf A Vawda OBITUARY - Devadas Paul David was born in Pietermaritzburg in 1940 and passed on last week. He is survived by his siblings Sinthi Qono, Vassie (Joan) Singh and Ben David; his daughters Jolene, Jasmine and Lisa, sons-in-law and several grandchildren. Five siblings predeceased him: Romesh David, Ronnie Peter David, Phyllis Naidoo, John (AJ) David and Matron Regina Maharaj. In his almost 80 years on Earth, Paul accomplished an enormous amount, more than most ordinary mortals would. He worked hard, played hard, gave generously, loved life abundantly and never once wavered in his commitment to the liberation of the people of this country. This is not to suggest that he was without flaws, as he was only human like the rest of us. What was the essence of Paul David? I have been pondering the question ever since we received the devastating news of his passing last Thursday. He was a lawyer, a husband and father, an accomplished sportsman, a political activist, a trusted friend and comrade, and a raconteur of note. Many might lay claim to such a description. What made Paul special? To appreciate that, one has to understand the social and political milieu in which he lived. He was raised in a family that valued education and service to the community. His early mentors were his father, the educationist Simon David, sister Phyllis and brother-in-law MD Naidoo. It was hardly surprising that he joined the political Struggle while a teenager. He mingled with the leaders of the political movement from the 1950s through to the 1990s. While he respected all of them, he was not awestruck by their stature, eloquence and position. Paul was a leader in his own right, and he was rightly respected by all who met and knew him. He did not fit the mould of the severe, dour, often dogmatic politician, but rather that of everyone’s buddy. This is to some extent because of his close friendships with activists who belonged to all strands of the liberation movement - Congress, Black Consciousness, Unity Movement, pan-Africanists. I have never come across anyone who was so universally accepted and loved. Paul was a naturally outgoing person, partly explained by his involvement in a variety of team sports, as an accomplished player and as a capable administrator. No one I know had the same capacity to get along with almost everybody. Paul was quick to connect with others, in a way that was instantly welcoming and affirming. Paul was legendary for his public speaking and facilitation skills. As many have observed, he was the go-to person for chairing meetings, large and small. Paul read the room brilliantly, listened respectfully and acknowledged diverse contributions to a debate. He then summarised all the views and most often succeeded in presenting a consensus position. Renowned for his trademark humour, he immediately made everyone feel comfortable and valued, enabling a lively and productive discussion. Such light-heartedness and witty banter can easily be misconstrued as superficiality. That was certainly not the case with Paul. Beneath that jovial exterior was a deep and profound understanding of human beings, unbounded compassion, an empathy with and an amazing ability to share the pain and deepest fears of others. Above all, he mastered the art of connecting with people at a fundamental level. Paul was fearless. This is evident from all the pictorial footage we have been seeing over the past few days. It shows Paul during his arrests by uniformed officers as well as security police of the apartheid regime. Paul understood that the morally bankrupt “enemy” relied on instilling a combination of fear and powerlessness over detainees and political prisoners. In these pictures, Paul’s posture, facial expression and gestures are distinctly defiant - unequivocally telling them: “I do not fear you! You have no power over me!” It was to be a singular lesson to many of us facing similar situations. Personal reflections As a student activist in the 1970s who had begun to attend public meetings of the Natal Indian Congress, I was instantly drawn to Paul’s engaging personality, his superb oratory and, of course, his ready wit. Paul adopted many of my generation of activists as younger brothers and sisters, and before we knew it, he was mentoring us, not through lofty treatises on Marxism and the like, but through his example, his actions and his positive outlook. We developed a wonderful friendship, which was personal, professional and political. He frequently visited Cati and me in later years when our children were little and excelled in the role of a favoured, jolly uncle. In January 1987, I was arrested and detained under section 29 of the Internal Security Act (the infamous detention without trial clause) for participation in the underground activities of the ANC. For five months, I had no contact with my family or lawyers. It was a challenging and stressful period for me, my family, friends and comrades. While Judge Thumba Pillay was my attorney trying to secure my release, Paul stepped into the breach and assisted in running my legal practice, all the while keeping my family informed and reassuring them about my safety. Then after five months, I received a visit from my lawyer - Paul! He never gave up pestering the security police to permit a visit on the pretext of needing to consult with me on some urgent cases. Paul walked into an office at the Westville Prison with a bundle of files. Needless to say, we hardly discussed the files, but in the presence of a hapless warder used coded language to exchange news and messages. When I was returned to my single cell during the post-lunch lock-up, I could hardly wait for the supper break to share the news with some of my fellow detainees. But that was not to be. In a little under an hour, I was asked to pack up - the warrant for my release had arrived from Pretoria, and I was to be released. Back home, my family tried frantically to contact Paul who had gone from the prison to consult counsel in Durban before returning to Verulam. He somehow received the news, and came to my home for another reunion. Two visits from Paul in one day - what a treat! The likes of Paul David are rarely encountered in a lifetime. I feel honoured to have walked alongside him. Hamba kahle, Comrade! Long live Paul David! Vawda is a senior research associate at the School of Law at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. POST