THANDEKA MGQIBI Durban - THE Paul David Commemoration Committee held a virtual memorial tribute for the Struggle stalwart on the 1860 Heritage Centre Facebook Page on Sunday. Friends, family and anti-apartheid activists paid tribute to David, who died of natural causes at his home in KwaDukuza on Thursday. He was 79. David was the last surviving member of the Consulate Six, who went to the British Consulate offices in Smith (now Anton Lembede) Street in 1984. The six - Archie Gumede, Mewa Ramgobin, George Sewpersadh, MJ Naidoo, Billy Nair and David - who introduced themselves as leaders of the mass anti-apartheid movement, the United Democratic Front, reportedly announced that they were there to seek the protection of the British government to escape arbitrary detention by apartheid authorities. They remained at the consulate for three months. At the virtual memorial tribute, David was described as a committed activist and a faithful servant of the people. Among the speakers were Ela Gandhi, Albertina Luthuli, the Reverend Frank Chikane, Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan and Lechesa Tsenoli. David’s eldest granddaughter, Caitlyn, said he was their motivator, mentor and hero. “I am grateful to have had an opportunity to learn from him at any given time. He was very special, warm and gentle. A man of humility and honour.” Luthuli, a Struggle stalwart and David’s friend, said they had lost a beloved prize. She sent condolences to the David family and added: “I’m sure he’s resting in peace and celebrating a new freedom with others like him who have passed on.” Gandhi, a friend and fellow comrade, recalled meeting David at university (Natal University) in the 1950s. “He became active in student politics, serving in the student representative council. He later went on to become an active member of the Natal Indian Congress and was involved in many campaigns, including the Release Mandela Campaign. We also worked in many campaigns together in Verulam.” Gandhi added that David was a stalwart in many ways, as he was able to relate across race groups, gender and class without any discrimination. John Samuel, a friend, said that David had to be remembered for more than just simply being one of the Consulate Six, and be placed squarely in the middle of South African history. Chikane called on his fellow comrades to take action against corruption and said it was unfortunate to see that some comrades who fought against apartheid were also now involved in the wrongdoing. He said leaders robbed the nation of what they should have, adding that he was “actually surprised we had these comrades with us all the time and yet they do all the things they are doing now”. Chikane said the best way to honour David would be to challenge the status quo in the country and take the movement that they fought for where they wanted it to be. Sharing Chikane’s sentiments, Gordhan made a call for better principles to guide those in power. “We must continue to promote the values of integrity that people like Paul David embodied and make sure that, in some form or the other, we begin to redefine what principled politics means, even if it means that politics is your career.” In a statement on Saturday, President Cyril Ramaphosa said: “The passing of Paul David as the last member of the Consulate Six is a great loss to our country and especially to the people of KwaZulu-Natal alongside whom he exerted himself in the trenches of Struggle.” According to reports, David had a private cremation, as per his wishes. POST