Durban – The eThekwini Municipality spent more than R400m on Covid-19 related expenditure – with the bulk of the money going towards paying the overtime of Metro Police officers. According to a report by the Treasury Cluster at the eThekwini Municipality which was presented at a virtual executive committee meeting on Tuesday, the City spent R426 937 685 on Covid-19 related expenses  over a four-month period after the country went into lockdown to curb the spread of the virus. Of this, R88 190 198 went to paying the overtime of Durban Metro Police officers. Personal Protective Equipment, sanitizers and hygiene services was second for expenditure which saw R75 825 832 spent by the City. Next in terms of Covid-19 expenditure was food hampers bought for the city’s indigent which saw the eThekwini Municipality spend R67 463 441. Provision for the homeless, which included marquees, showers, toilets, blankets, security, health units, temporary staff, nurses and thermo scanners cost ratepayers R66 856 286. The report shows that R53 509 855 was spent on uniforms, consumables, protective wear, perspex screens, IT equipment and sanitiser mountings. In addition, the City spent R42 658 373 on municipal entity contributions while R8 877 095 went towards hygiene products for distribution to informal settlements, hostels, transit camps, mass care centres and rental housing stock to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Tankering of water including static tanks cost R19.6m while R2.5m was spent on chemical toilets and R1 097 000 spent on “community and awareness campaigns”. Sanitizing taxi ranks, public facilities and inner cities cost R360 604. Thabani Mthethwa, a DA member of the executive committee, the main opposition in the eThekwini Municipality, called on the City to do an internal audit of the Covid-19 expenditure as the City was charged above the benchmarked rate set by the national treasury for many of the items purchased during the Covid-19 pandemic. DA caucus leader, Nicole Graham questioned the amount of overtime paid to the metro police, saying the City was not getting “bang for its buck for what ordinary people see from the metro police”. “A lot of that money is used to guard politicians, to sit and watch councillor’s houses at night and it has been a consistent thing for years that metro police blow their budget. We don’t believe that it is specific to Covid and what was required under Covid. If there was expenditure being incurred that actually had a material effect on Durbanites life, sure. But we don’t believe that that is the case,” she said. Mdu Nkosi an IFP councillor and executive committee member said  that much of the expenditure must be investigated by the Special Investigative Unit and the Public Protector. “I have so many suspicions and my gut feel is that we must look into the expenses around the provision of homeless shelters,” he said. Daily News 