Durban - OTHONGATHI residents are fed up with the closure of the local municipal crematorium recently due to the facility running out of gas for the furnace. Ward councillor Dolly Munien said residents were disheartened with the closure in the midst of a pandemic. “Imagine what happens to families who then have to go to Verulam or any of the other crematoria nearby in a time like this, where people are losing jobs. This just adds another burden to people in an already difficult time.” Varencia Pillay, the funeral director at Continental Funerals, said the eThekwini Municipality had been slow to address the issues at the crematorium. “The municipality usually waits until the crematorium runs out of gas to replace it. In the past, families who could afford to bought their own gas, but that is no longer allowed. Another problem is the furnace still needs to be upgraded, but that is yet to be done.” eThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela apologised and said the crematorium would be open after the gas supply was delivered, which was scheduled for yesterday. “We apologise for the inconvenience caused to residents. Systems have been put in place to ensure we never have a delay in supply in the future.” DA Exco councillor Yogis Govender condemned the interruption to operations, saying it was a recurring and often reported problem. “This is a gross oversight by the municipality and this untenable, unacceptable situation repeats itself every year. As a resident and in my official capacity, I reject this with contempt. Again, this is poor management and poor planning from the Parks, Recreation and Culture Department.” IFP Exco councillor Mdu Nkosi said it was important for the municipality to address any issues that impact on crematoriums functioning properly. “It’s worrying that a crematorium can be closed at this time as most likely there will be cremations that need to happen every day. They are very important at this time to ensure we don’t have bodies piling up, and we need officials to be proactive as well as hold themselves accountable.”