NARENDH GANESH OPINION - EVERY so often, humanity is punctuated by acts - or omissions - that sculpt the landscape of our humanism, either giving us hope or despair. The Covid-19 pandemic has taken South Africa into a deeper abyss than one could have ever imagined. Not so much for the devastating effects of the virus, but because of the conduct, or rather the misconduct of so-called “fellow South Africans”, who in the guise of being patriots sought to knowingly plunder and rape a desperate situation only because of greed. The debacle that has become the “PPE tenders”, which reeks of an undercurrent of utter and despicable corruption, should not surprise us. South Africa has truly become a nation of rogues. Sadly, our government, past and present, are solely responsible for the fiasco we are witnessing. The ANC which controls the government, whether one likes to believe it or not, has sown pathetic, incompetent, quite often incapable and downright corrupt men and women within its ranks, who have forgotten what the so-called “Struggle” was all about. Commissions of inquiry upon commissions of inquiry, which used billions in taxpayer monies, have come to naught, serving no purpose except for ticking worthless bureaucratic boxes. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s bold utterances that his government will “clamp down” on corruption is familiar and antiquated rhetoric that I have no faith in whatsoever. What is the purpose of clamping down on corruption when our law enforcement agencies and our wheels of justice turn at a snail’s pace that make a mockery of the attempt to bring to book those who have deep hands in the pockets of our fiscus? Our laws and the punishment meted out to miscreants is laughable - not forgetting the “well-connected” who can escape the hands of justice by bureaucratic interference. One has to cast one’s mind back as to how the Gupta family clawed their way out of the country when the heat was on. Then again, we had as head honcho at the time a man whose character raised more questions than we will ever have answers to. The pervasive corruption that has engulfed us stems right at the root - the government and the ruling party. They have allowed cadres and comrades to do as they please - with little recourse for accountability and transparency. Yet and ironically, they stand on mantles bemoaning such vile acts. And they have the audacity to talk about radical economic transformation. All the while the people suffer, and now more so than ever, when we are in a precarious financial strait, we are subjected to looting on a scale that reflects the degenerate society we have become. Unless corruption against the state is made into a crime of treason with penalties devoid of mercy, we will continue to be the victims of those who amass power, quite often by proxy of an unthinking electorate who time and again return the rot that purges our nation into utter despair. Perhaps it was the inculcation of the notion of that the state owes the people - coupled with the default excuse of the ill-effects of apartheid that drives many to believe that they can act with impropriety and get away with it. Our country is in dire straits - make no mistake about that. The damning pandemic that consumes us and its after-effects will take a major toll on every facet of our lives. But the tragedy is compounded by those in our very midst who masquerade as B-BBEE entrepreneurs but in effect are plain rogues who seek nothing more than to enrich themselves and theirs, manipulating, fiddling and corrupting everything around them simply to live the lavish life. To just simply excoriate corruption continually is pointless. It would be far better to drive a system of “drastic radical action” whereby swift and draconian laws are promulgated to incarcerate those who offend and deplete resources for the greater public than to keep on blaming the past but doing nothing to ensure that the present and the future is at least taken care of. I caution every South African, the longer you sit on your laurels and just complain, you may well find that one day you may have nothing left yourself to enjoy the life you once envisaged , for the thugs are running rampant every single minute. Patriotism - which is a distant theory in many of our so-called “compatriots” - must be revived and unless corruption is made into a crime of treason with the severest of penalties imposed, we will forever be in a mire of desperation. NARENDH GANESH Durban North POST