Durban - THE multiple sexual abuse allegations against Yogi Bhajan, an Indian-born American Kundalini yogi and spiritual leader, are likely true. This was according to an independent investigative report released this month by An Olive Branch, an organisation that deals with ethical misconduct in spiritual communities. Bhajan, originally named Harbhajan Singh Khalsa, was born into a Sikh family in Punjab in 1929. In 1968, he moved to the US and was credited for bringing his version of Kundalini yoga to the West. He soon built an empire of several businesses and non-profit organisations worth billions. These include the Happy, Healthy, Holy Organization (3HO), the Kundalini Research Institute (KRI) and Sikh Dharma International. Over the years, Bhajan attracted a large group of devoted followers. Some of them followed him from Los Angeles to New Mexico when he had to move headquarters. Allegations of sexual misconduct surfaced periodically since his arrival in the US, including two lawsuits in 1986 that were eventually settled out of court. Bhajan died on October 6, 2004, at the age of 75, at his home in Española, New Mexico, after complications linked to heart failure. According to wikipedia.org he is survived by his wife, sons, daughter and five grandchildren. The website added that after his death, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee closed its offices to commemorate his death and the state of New Mexico honoured him by naming a highway after him. State Highway 106, which ran in front of his home, was renamed the Yogi Bhajan Memorial Highway. The New Mexico government, according to wikipedia.org, took the unprecedented measure of flying its flags at half mast for two days and declared October 23 Yogi Bhajan Memorial Day. All of Bhajan’s for-profit and non-profit holdings have since been consolidated under the umbrella body, Siri Singh Sahib Corporation. Last December, allegations were raised once again after the publication of Premka: White Bird in a Golden Cage - My Life with Yogi Bhajan by Pamela Saharah Dyson, one of his students and former secretary of more than 20 years. In her book, she detailed the alleged repeated physical and sexual abuse from 1968 to 1984. She pursued legal action against him but the matter was later settled out of court. After the book’s release, more of his followers broke their silence on a Facebook group called Beyond the Cage: The 3HO Yogi Bhajan Kundalini Yoga Aftermath. Others came forward in January to report allegations of sexual abuse. In February, the Siri Singh Sahib Corporation formed the Collaborative Response Team to address the allegations and by March commissioned An Olive Branch to conduct an independent investigation. FINDING: An Olive Branch set up two teams to conduct interviews. The scope of the report focused solely on sexual and spiritual abuse. One interviewed or received statements from the victims - referred to in the report as reporters of harm - and the other of the supporters. The supporters wished to support Bhajan and/or refute the allegations or the credibility of those making the allegations. His supporters painted a picture of a teacher who was wise, perceptive, compassionate and worked tirelessly for the well-being of his students. They rejected all the allegations of sexual misconduct based on several reasons; one of which included that sexual energy was a way lower vibration than what Bhajan was capable of channelling and could not have urges that were that low. One supporter said: “When people have sex, they are imprinted in each other’s auras why would he soil his mastery this way by sleeping with people?” A total of 299 people participated in the investigation. Of that number, 96 (32%) were reporters of harm, 140 (47%) were Bhajan supporters, and the remaining 63 (21%) stated a position or made comments that fell outside the scope of the investigation. Under sexual abuse, there were four claims of rape, eight of physical injury during sex, nine of unwanted touching in intimate areas, and three of unwanted exposure to pornography. Thirty more claims were made of sexual harassment and another 30 of unethical behaviour. The report lists statements of anonymous victims and supporters in their own words. In one reported alleged rape case, the victim said: “I wasn’t ready for intercourse. I wasn’t willing to have intercourse. I didn’t want to be there. But the master, who trained his students to conquer everyone else, had to conquer the student himself. To me, it felt like rape The last time he raped me was in LA (Los Angeles). The Yogi said, ‘I will conquer you’ - I said, ‘That’s the end’.” There were allegations that Bhajan injured them during sex. The victims referred to him biting and sucking off their tongue, face, neck and private areas. They said the biting was painful and often left them bruised and bleeding. One victim said: “He bit my tongue. He sucked on my tongue and it turned blue. I cried but he would not let go until he finished “I was sleep-deprived for 10 years He would bite me on my neck, ears, cheeks and I cried. He bit my privates. He showed no remorse for hurting me. I took pain pills like candy” Another said: “ I tried to cover my bruises with make-up. When it first happened to me, there was no conversation, just the act itself. Except that he told me ‘just relax’” Seven women reported unwanted touching of the breasts, including two who were minors. In addition, two victims said they were directed by Bhajan to touch his genitals. Three victims, two of whom were minors, said they experienced unwanted exposure to pornography. Seventeen victims said they experienced being a target for Bhajan’s sexually offensive language. Six reported the offensive use of the word f***, four experienced being called a whore, prostitute and other names. Some were directed by Bhajan to shave their pubic hair. “I had been there for 10 months. I never had an inkling of anything sexual until Yogi Bhajan said, ‘I am going to f*** you.’ He showed me the soft part of his arm. He wanted me to take all my pubic hair off I was shocked that it came from him, a holy man” Victims said they were subjected to unwanted sexual propositioning and coaching while others reported being part of group sex with Bhajan. Later in the report, 11 victims spoke of how Bhajan allegedly controlled information, how students felt subjugated and caught, and why simply leaving the community was not a viable alternative. “They reported experiencing Yogi Bhajan’s tight control of information, feeling that 3HO/Sikh Dharma was a cult and cult-like, being taught to see Yogi Bhajan as God, being inhibited from speaking out, and suffering Yogi Bhajan’s control of their major life decisions,” the report said. One person said she stayed in a relationship with Bhajan because she was eager to please him and another said she did not want to betray her teacher. POST