Durban - THE KwaZulu-Natal Department of Social Development has been left leaderless following the suspension of most of its senior officials who have been fingered in the procurement of substandard blankets for the homeless around the province. Just after President Cyrl Ramaphosa declared a state of national disaster, the department paid R22 million for 48 000 poor quality blankets without going to tender. On Monday evening, MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza announced the suspension of officials implicated in the procurement of blankets and PPEs. This follows a damning forensic investigation report conducted into the procurement of the goods. A forensic team assembled by the Premier's office investigated the procurement of the blankets following talks of irregularities into the procurement of the goods. The report into the investigation recommended that disciplinary action be taken against the acting Head of Department, acting Deputy Director-General, Chief Financial Officer (CFO), acting Supply Chain Manager, Cluster Chief Directors, and Supply Chain Management (SCM) officials for contravening sections 45, 81 and 88 of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) of 1999. The officials are also facing charges of misconduct in terms of Chapter 7, read with various Supply Chain Management prescripts. Khoza acknowledged the work done by the investigators and said her department would ensure that all those implicated would be held to account. She said the suspension of officials, including an employee in her office, was indication that her department would not tolerate corruption. “As a department we were taken aback by the outcome of the forensic investigation report, as presented by Premier Sihle Zikalala. “The information unearthed by the investigation points to the high level of recklessness by officials tasked with safeguarding taxpayers’ monies. I have since instructed the Head of Department, as an Accounting Officer, Mrs. Nelly Vilakazi, to ensure that the recommendations of the report are implemented to the latter," she said. She said two criminal charges were registered with the Directorate of Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks). “We take a strong exception to corruption and maladministration, especially during this period when the people are battling the scourge of Covid-19 and the ripple effect it has on other aspects of life. We will ensure that taxpayers’ money that was spent irregularly is recovered. Not only will we deal with officials, but we will also deal with companies that were involved in the process. We have engaged a multidisciplinary team, comprising officials from Social Development, Office of the Premier, and Department of Public Service and Administration (DPSA) to ensure the speedy implementation of the recommendations of the report," Khoza said. The procured goods also included sanitisers, wet wipes, soups and towels. Daily News