Durban - TRENANCE Park Secondary in Verulam was broken into for the 24th time on Tuesday morning. Abby Naidoo, chairperson of the school governing body, said it was an easy target because the police had done nothing to catch the suspects. “During the early hours of Saturday, six suspects got on to the school premises. One of them was armed. The security guard was beaten and sustained injuries to his face and body. "The suspects cut the locks to the power room and tuck shop. They stole cooking equipment and cooldrink. “They went into the principal’s office and damaged his cupboards. They took a printer and 10 keyboards and computer monitors from the computer lab.” Naidoo said the stolen items and the damage to the property amounted to about R36000. “Then on Tuesday morning, six suspects broke into our storage room. This is the 24th break-in since 2018. We've incurred over R700000 in damages and stolen goods. We reported the incidents to police but haven't received feedback.” Naidoo said the school served eight informal settlements in the area. “We charge a school fee of R1800 but most of our pupils come from poor backgrounds and are unable to pay. We are unable to fund-raise like other schools because parents don’t have the money to support the initiatives.” She said the school had repaired the damage and replaced goods from the previous robberies through sponsorships from the community. “The break-ins have put a lot of strain on the principal, Dayanundh Ramsuran, and the staff. Three pupils and six teachers tested positive for Covid-19 and during their recovery we've had to ensure the school was disinfected. We are just coming out of this situation and we had to deal with a robbery.” Yoliswa Mzamo, the treasurer, said the school was running out of funds. “We reported the robbery to the Department of Education. These robberies are depriving children of a better education. We need police to intervene.” Kwazi Mthethwa, spokesperson for the Department of Education, said criminals were targeting schools in the province: "We will be looking into the matter." Captain Nqobile Gwala, police spokesperson, said a case of robbery was being investigated by Verulam SAPS. POST