Durban - The Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (Denosa) has written to the KZN Health head of department to get answers on a number of issues plaguing nurses as the country continues to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. The union wants a response by no later than August 8. As the country’s Covid-19 death and infection toll continues to rise, Denosa KZN provincial secretary Mandla Shabangu said they had asked the department for a human resources plan. He said the plan would ensure that when nurses were in isolation or quarantine, overtime or moonlighting under approval, their absence would not overburden their colleagues. These are the seven demands from the union: 1. A clearly defined plan of human resources, regarding moonlighting or overtime in all institutions with nurses in isolation or quarantine. 2. We demand a clear circular or Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) regarding psychological support of our members before they report back to work after testing positive. 3. We demand a clear policy or circular about precautionary measures taken by the department to reduce exposure to Covid-19 of our members with comorbidities. 4. We demand that all institutions present proof of having occupational health and safety (OHS) and employee assistance programme (EAP) practitioners in place at all facilities. 5. We demand that all institutions provide all nurses with N95 masks even if they are not working in designated Covid-19 units. 6. We demand that Covid-19 tests for health-care workers be prioritised to reduce turn-around time so our members get results at least three days after testing. At present, our members wait up to two weeks for results, potentially exposing other health workers to the virus. 7. We demand that student nurses be given devices such as laptops that will assist them with their studies in the current environment. Shabangu said they would be waiting for a detailed response from the KZN Health Department HOD, failing which they would escalate their issues to the next level. Daily News