Durban - THE Juma Masjid in the Durban CBD, also known as the Grey Street Mosque, had a close shave after a fire gutted seven flats on the first floor of the building housing the historic facility yesterday. Mosque trustee AV Mohammed, who tried to fight the flames with colleagues before the fire brigade arrived, said he was left feeling “hurt” by the incident. “When I heard about the fire, I went there to try to help to put it out. I was very hurt about it. We tried to put it out, but it was too strong.” Mohammed said he could not say that he was thankful the mosque was not affected by the fire, as he was worried about the residents whose flats had been gutted by the flames, which took the Fire Department hours to get under control.  His main concern was the safety of the people whose flats, which are separated from the mosque by an arcade, were destroyed. He added that he was concerned over the water damage that businesses which operated on the ground floor suffered as a result of the efforts of the firefighters battling the flames. Fire Department central region commander Alfred Newman said they received a call-out at about 12.30pm and arrived four minutes later. When they got to the scene, they saw that the fire was raging on the first floor. Newman said he was told by residents that the fire started in “flat number 3” and had spread from there. They were still unsure what the cause of the fire was. However, there were no injuries and the mosque, among the largest in the southern hemisphere, was unaffected, he said. Garrith Jamieson, spokesperson for Redline Response Paramedics, said they had treated several people at the scene for smoke inhalation. The fire, on one of the busiest streets in the Durban CBD, resulted in traffic jams that lasted hours as part of the road had to be closed for firefighters to get the blaze under control. There were also hundreds of onlookers who added to the congestion in the district. This was not the first time there was a fire in the area. Last year in April, the Daily News reported on a fire at Aboobaker Mansions, across the road from the mosque, which dates back to 1881 in its first iteration. Three stores and a flat were destroyed in that blaze. Paramedics reported that several people were treated for injuries at the scene. Daily News