Durban - THE DA has called for the fire-hit Msunduzi Municipality’s New England Road landfill site to be shut down because it is nearing the end of its lifespan and the municipality is struggling financially. “The dump has about six working years left and all relevant procedures should now be followed to identify and establish another landfill,” Heinz de Boer, the DA’s speaker on Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, said yesterday. The fire, which began almost two weeks ago, resulted in firefighters from the municipality and surrounding areas working together to extinguish it. The N3 had to be closed because of the plumes of smoke. De Boer said he wrote to EDTEA MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube, calling for action from her. “While the DA recognises that some of the issues at the dump fall under the ambit of both national and municipal authorities, it would appear that the province is also falling short of its mandate in terms of air pollution, groundwater pollution and environmental degradation.” People who lived near the dump had a right to live in an environment that did not compromise their health, he said. He suggested helping more than 700 waste pickers who earn a living by recycling waste from the site. “Given that there is already a dedicated recycling area within the dump, the province could potentially assist the municipality in formalising and controlling such activities. These people cannot just be chased off the dump. They must be helped to continue to earn a living,” he said. GroundWork’s environmental health campaigner Rico Euripidou said the landfill site was supposed to be shut down more than 10 years ago. “A landfill fire is the worst thing as what is dumped on the site is a mixture of industrial, domestic and e-waste and the pollution from the fire – which does not degrade – goes into animals that are eaten by humans and the non-degradable chemicals affect the endocrine system and the children’s physical development, among others.” Euripidou said the problems at the landfill could be traced back to ineffective leadership at the municipality. “If we think this is the last landfill fire, we would be fooling ourselves.” He said the waste pickers had been decreasing the amount of waste at the site. In a year they had helped to recycle 200 000 tons of waste. Some 90% of recycling waste was picked up by waste pickers and without them South Africa’s recycling efforts would be in shambles, he said. Msunduzi Municipality spokesperson Thobeka Mafumbatha said they had prevented waste pickers from entering the site for their own safety. She said recently there was a confrontation between the waste pickers and security on the site. “The municipality will be engaging with their association to pave a way forward.” Dube-Ncube said: “We have undertaken to strengthen a joint operations centre involving all spheres of government to deal with the overall management of the site.” Daily News