Durban - GYM owners, employees and fitness enthusiasts embarked on a countrywide protest last Wednesday demanding the government allow fitness facilities to reopen. In June, President Cyril Ramaphosa had said South Africa’s level 3 lockdown regulations would be relaxed to allow a number of businesses to reopen. While many non-contact sports were allowed to resume under the revised regulations, gyms and fitness centres remain closed. The protest was held by FitSA, the association of health and fitness clubs. Grant Austin, FitSA’s spokesperson, said it was time the fitness industry raised a collective voice. “This is not only for the 29 000 people who are employed to help keep South Africa fit at approximately 1 096 gyms across the country, but for the 2.2 million people who have club memberships, from the smaller independents and franchises to the big clubs. “The industry feels that continued closure is irrational, considering health and safety protocols that are set to be put in place. Opening up gyms will save jobs and will give South Africans the choice should they want to return to their workouts.” Donavan Pillay, the owner of The Rock Gym and Wellness Centre in Chatsworth, said a few people cancelled their membership while others requested their accounts not be debited for the monthly contract fees. The gym opened in 2018 and offered weight training, cardio workouts, aerobic classes, yoga, kickboxing and dance classes. “We had 1 500 members prior to the lockdown but the membership has since dropped. People are sceptical about training even when the gyms are allowed to reopen.” He said he faced financial challenges. “We have not been able to pay the rental for four months. However, we’re lucky to have great landlords who have been patient and understanding of our current situation and they’ve allowed us to make a payment arrangement going forward.” He said he had to pay the staff salaries because the business had still not received funds from the UIF-Covid19 Temporary Employee/Employer Relief Scheme. Pillay said while he had been offered relief from the bank, he opted not to take it. “This will put us into more debt further down the line and I don’t want to put the business in a situation where I’ll have to pay off a loan for the next five years. For now, I will have to use personal funds and try to make ends meet.” He said the government should allow fitness facilities to reopen. “They have done it with every other sector. Keeping us closed has shown prejudice and bias towards our industry.“ When the gym reopened, Pillay said he would restrict the number of members using the facility at a time. “We have also increased the number of sanitising stations and implemented demarcated areas and floors so members can social distance but still get on with their training. “If everyone is responsible and follows the protocols and guidelines, we can make the operations continue smoothly and provide the service of a training facility for society.” Nishaan Ora, the owner of Ora Gym in Overport and Newlands East, said he had not debited the monthly fees of more than 1500 members. “This has left us in a dire situation with personal funds being exhausted,” said Ora. “We still have to pay the rental, which is about R50 000 a month, and the utility and telephone accounts.” He said he had had to sell or hire out equipment to meet the expenses. “But it’s still not enough.” Gillian Elson, head of marketing for Planet Fitness, said there had not been any income for the past four months. Planet Fitness has 47 clubs in the country, of which six are in KwaZulu-Natal. “We have frozen our members’ contracts since the beginning of the lockdown and for that reason the company has not received any income. This is an enormous financial loss. We have also invested a significant amount of revenue into our free online home classes provided to our members and the general public during the lockdown period in an effort to give back to the community and keep South Africa fit and healthy.” Elson said there were no job losses. “The company has taken a view that people are core to our business, but we have had to make use of UIF funding for staff and we have had to ask staff to take some pay cuts. “We are one of the largest players in the industry. The continued delay in opening means that we may be forced to look at job losses as it’s not viable to continue in this manner.” Elson said the company had made various submissions to the government in June. “Planet Fitness signed a mandate together with the independent operators on behalf of the industry on June 25. “We are starting to see some progress on the matter. Last Thursday, very positive discussions were held with the government and the Department of Sport regarding our best practice protocols that we had proposed. “We have not had any indication from the government about when we will be able to open but are confident that we will have feedback in the week. “We strongly believe that gyms should be opened and as a matter of urgency. “Gyms are very much part of the solution in keeping our members fit and healthy during this time.” According to reports, Virgin Active announced that it would reduce the salaries of its more than 3000 staff members by 75%. The company said it had stopped collecting debit orders from members since the lockdown and that it had received no membership revenue since March. “During this time we have continued to pay staff. This position is not sustainable long term, with no date for reopening agreed with the government. As such we have had to move ahead with temporary lay-offs across our clubs, national head office and contact centre. “To support our staff, they will receive at least 25% of their income despite suspended employment. “A reopening of gyms will allow us to abandon these temporary lay-offs.” POST