Durban - ADELE Pillay is seven months’ pregnant. She is one of 25 residents living in dilapidated buildings in Westcliff, Chatsworth, where the old child welfare offices were based. The structure does not have doors, windows or a roof. Residents use tin sheets as roofing. Others have built shacks around the buildings. They share a communal tap for water. They don’t have electricity, and to relieve themselves they use a dilapidated room or a nearby bush. Despite their pleas to eThekwini Municipality for proper sanitation, they claim nothing is being done to help them. Pillay, 25, lives in a brick home with a tin roof with her partner, Owen Chetty, 30. The home does not have a door or windows. To earn an income, Chetty does odd jobs like tiling and cleaning gardens, while Pillay is a domestic worker. But with fears of contracting Covid-19, most residents are not hiring people for odd jobs - leaving Pillay with no choice but to beg. “I grew up in a home for girls in Verulam. I don’t know who my family is. I moved to Chatsworth six years ago with a friend. I met Owen two years ago. We began a relationship, and I moved in with him in the settlement after falling on hard times.” Pillay said they tried to find jobs, but it was difficult. “Since we cannot get jobs, I go from house to house every day asking people for food or money. Anything that can get us something to eat.” Pillay said they had one communal tap for water but no electricity or toilets. “We either go into the bush or a rundown room. It is scary and unhygienic. We cannot afford proper items to keep our homes sanitised. I am scared we will contract and spread Covid-19.” Pillay said they asked their councillor for help with sanitation packs and portable toilets on numerous occasions, but nothing had been done. “Every night, I pray I don’t contract the virus, and that I remain healthy so I can carry my baby for the full term of my pregnancy.” Magashlin Sam, 24, is unemployed and lives in a tin home. “This is an embarrassing situation for many of us,” said Sam. “I ended up in the settlement after things did not work out for me. We have men, women and children going into the bush to use the toilet.” Sam said every time they met the councillor they expected help, but nothing changed. “These conditions are inhumane. There is a pandemic, and the local government has not even given us sanitation packs. All it takes is for one person to get the virus, and we could all be infected.” Another resident, Sbu Qungani, 35, is also unemployed and lives in a similar dwelling as Sam. He lives with his wife, Priscilla, 25, and their two children, aged 10 and 6. “My wife and I have tried to get jobs, but it is hard. We are willing to do any work. The conditions we are living in are terrible. We met with our councillor, Tony Govender, hoping to get help, but nothing changes.” Qungani said even if portable toilets were given to the community it would give residents some dignity. “We are just left to suffer.” Nelson Subramoney, a community activist, said Sam went to him for help. “Families did not have food or warm clothing and blankets. I managed to get some sponsorships to assist them. Right now, they need portable toilets. Having to use a room or a bush is humiliating.” Dr Niven Govender, a general practitioner, said residents living in an informal settlement were at a higher risk of contracting Covid-19 through the one-tap system. “If a person is infected and they open and close the tap, traces of the virus remain on the tap. Through the tap, the virus can be transmitted. Having a foot peddle or an extended handle that can open the tap with one’s elbow will assist in preventing the spread.” Govender said residents using the bush or a room to relieve themselves in were exposed to other viruses such as E coli and cholera. Tony Govender, a DA ward councillor, said an application was made to eThekwini Municipality in July for the installation of ablutions facilities. “I received confirmation from the municipality that the toilets will be installed during the course of this month.” Mbulelo Baloyi, the spokesperson for the Department of Human Settlements in KZN, said there were 599 informal settlements in the province. “The department has provided funding to the eThekwini Municipality to provide water, pre-paid electricity and proper sanitation to these communities.” The municipality did not comment at the time of publication. POST