Durban - FATIMA Shaiba wept as she tried to salvage what she could after a fire gutted her family’s home next to the historic Juma Musjid (Grey Street Mosque) on Monday. Shaiba, 38, her husband, Twarik Yassein, and their four children, aged 18, 9, 4 and 2, were one of seven families whose homes were gutted. On Tuesday morning, Shaiba said she and her three youngest children were shopping in town when the fire started. “My husband and our eldest son were at home when they heard everybody shouting that there was a fire,” said Shaiba. “They ran out of the flat and saw that our neighbour’s home was on fire. “My husband phoned me and I could hear the panic in his voice. He told us to return home as the building was on fire. “When I arrived, I saw Twarik and our son standing on the opposite side of the road. We all watched as the fire spread to our two-bedroom flat and the flats of our neighbours. “I held my chest and cried. I could not believe what I was seeing. This was our home for 10 years. I thought about all our belongings. Thankfully, my family was safe.” She said when they returned to the building on Tuesday, they managed to salvage a few clothing items and religious books, including their Qur’an. “All our furniture, beds, fridge and appliances were burnt. We have to now try to rebuild our lives.” She said they were staying with friends. Abdul-Quader Essay, a neighbour, lost everything. Essay, 60, who lives alone, was at work at the time. The salesman at a car dealership said: “One of my friends called to tell me that the building was on fire. By the time I arrived, the fire was so high. I’m thankful no one was trapped inside the building or was hurt.” He said his family moved into the building - that was built in 1927 - more than 70 years ago. “And this has always been our home. For now, I’m staying with relatives but I hope to return once the building is restored.” Essay said he only managed to salvage some meat parcels. “These were at the bottom of the freezer, but everything else was burnt. I was left with only the clothes I was wearing.” The resident in whose flat the fire allegedly started declined to comment. AV Mohamed, chairperson of the Juma Musjid, said: “By the grace of the Almighty Allah, the mosque was not affected in any way. There was also no water damage. The mosque constitutes a separate inner building and seven of 14 flats, which are on the second-storey of the other building, were affected. “It’s believed that the fire started in one of the flats and moved to the adjoining flats. The building is insured and we’re waiting for the structural engineer to assess the damage. “But it must be remembered that the mosque, which is 139 years old, and the building with the flats, that was built in 1927, are both heritage sites and will be restored. It is not negotiable.” Mohamed added that prayer continued on Monday night and Tuesday morning, with six worshippers. “Once the place is secured, then we will reopen to the public.” Alfred Newman, the regional commander of the eThekwini Municipality’s fire department, said five fire engines, a hydraulic platform and three water carriers were used to put out the blaze. “We had about 35 firefighters who worked for almost three hours to bring the blaze under control. The fire was controlled from spreading to the other flats and to the mosque. The cause of the fire is yet to be established. Fortunately, there were no deaths or injuries.” POST