Durban - A video showing an alleged policeman heavily intoxicated and armed has caused a stir on social media and is now fuelling the debate around the unbanning of alcohol. In the video, the videographer takes the policeman’s firearm and puts it on the bent over officers back telling him to take his gun. The videographer is heard saying alcohol should be banned again. It is unclear where the video was taken. Police Minister, Bheki Cele was yet to confirm whether the man captured on video wearing a police reflector vest is a policeman. In the video he is bent over the seat of a car, knees on the ground with his firearm on his hip. Cele’s spokesperson Lirandzu Themba said she could not comment until it was verified whether the man whose face doesn't show on the video was an officer. This comes a week after the lifting of the alcohol sale ban in SA. Four people were reported to have died as a result of alcohol in SA at the weekend. One of these a 32-year-old man who died on scene at an informal settlement in La Mercy after an argument over alcohol. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the 32-year-old had been in argument with two others when he was stabbed. She said a 36-year old man was also stabbed during this argument and was rushed to hospital for medical care. "A case of murder and attempted murder was opened at Tongaat police station for investigation. Police searched the area for the suspect and he was apprehended while hiding in the sugarcane field. The suspect, 23, was arrested and charged for murder and attempted murder. It is alleged that the suspect was found with injuries after he was assaulted by community members when he ran and hid. He was taken to hospital for medical attention. He will appear at the Verulam Magistrate’s Court as soon as he is released from hospital.“ On Monday Transport Minister Fikile visited the families of Tshwane Metro Police Department constables Edward Phaduli, 37, Khathutshelo Mukwevho, 30, and Silas Phala, 43, who died in the line of duty in the early hours of Sunday morning. They died in a head on collision with a suspected drunk driver. IOL reported tha Mbalula called on South Africa to review its alcohol laws, adding that “people are out of control”. "This over-access of alcohol we drink from 6 to 6, must come to an end. At some point, people can drink, but when it’s 10pm they must know it’s over whether there is Covid-19 (or not), we must review our laws in terms of alcohol access,” he said. “As a country, we need to review our laws on the access to alcohol. We need to address this as it continues to kill our people on roads and everywhere.” Daily News