Durban - THE growing drug problem in Phoenix was a serious hurdle in the fight against crime, said a local private security company. Glen Naidoo, the chief executive of KZN VIP Protection, took to social media appealing for help in identifying a theft suspect. He said theft, such as the one captured on the CCTV footage, was becoming a daily occurrence in Phoenix due to the drug problem in the area. “We have whoonga camps where groups of people addicted to drugs live. They have been kicked out of their homes because they steal everything to sell it and, as a result, their families don’t want them. There are about five or six of these camps in Phoenix that can be identified,” said Naidoo. In the video, two cars are seen parked next to each other - a Toyota Corolla and a Kia bakkie. A light comes on at the corner where the cars are parked, a figure is seen bent over a table. A man then appears on the screen walking towards the Toyota. He appears to shut the car door before putting something inside the front of his hooded jacket. He walks over to the bakkie where he crouches and removes the car battery, before staring straight into the camera and quickly rushing off. Naidoo said addicts from these camps lived for the sole purpose of prowling neighbourhoods at night, looking for weak entry points to steal things. “They do this, also during the day, when they are desperate and need a fix. The footage was taken from a pensioner’s home, one road away from a security company. Behind this company is a whoonga camp." Naidoo believed Phoenix was rife with corruption, which saw the drug trade increase in the area. “Drugs in the area is the reason why we are battling to win the war against crime.” Phoenix CPF chairperson Umesh Singh felt that, with the community’s involvement, the suspect would be caught. “Anyone who can identify him should come forward because he could be linked other crimes. Communities must be cautious by securing their property; police can’t be everywhere." Daily News