Durban - The Metro Police fraternity is mourning the death of one of their own who was stabbed to death on Wednesday night. Acting Captain at Albert Park, Dumisani Zondi, who has been described as an outstanding officer and one of the metro police’s finest was allegedly stabbed to death after telling a group of men to stop drinking in public in Montclair. Rescue Care paramedics had arrived on scene shortly after the stabbing took place. Spokesperson Rowan Scandroglio said a man in his 40’s had been killed in a stabbing incident in Montclair Park on Wood Road in Montclair just after 7pm on Wednesday night. “Rescue Care Paramedics arrived on the scene to find a male believed to be in his forties had sustained a fatal stab wound to his body. Unfortunately there was nothing further Paramedics could do for him and he was declared deceased on the scene,” said Scandroglio. He said at this stage events leading up to the incident were unknown but SAPS were on scene and would be investigating. Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said Zondi was an outstanding officer that had recently arrested two taxi drivers that were bullying and assaulting Metro Police officers in the city . “He was a very good acting captain. He was one of the very hard working acting captain and he had a lot to achieve in his career,” said Sewpersad. He said Zondi was off duty and had been in Montclair for soccer training. Sewpersad said it is alleged that after training, Zondi had seen people drinking in public at the Shell garage in Montclair. He told them not to drink in public, an altercation broke out and he was stabbed by the heart. “We are very saddened by the death of this acting captain from Albert Park,” said Sewpersad. He said they would be working closely with detectives to arrest the suspect. Anybody who has seen or heard anything, to please notify Metro Police or SAPS. Raz Ali, of Boss-UIP, a private security company involved in Urban Improvement Precinct’s in the Durban city centre said Zondi was one of the finest metro police officers. He said Zondi went beyond the call of duty and was always willing to help the community. “I was shocked to hear about his death. He was a police officer to everyone. There was nothing he would not do for the community. He lived and died serving the people of Durban,” he said. Daily News