Durban - BASED on the reports by 36 victims, the investigation concluded that it was more likely than not that US-based yoga master and self-styled Sikh Yogi Bhajan engaged in several types of sexual misconduct and abused his power as a spiritual leader. “The specific sexual misconduct included various forms of sexual battery, sexual assault and sexual harassment, as well as conduct judged to be unethical according to the Sikh vows and inconsistent with Yogi Bhajan’s own teachings. He abused the power entrusted to him,” stated the report’s summary of findings. The report said that to move forward, the key question the community would need to ask was how to identify, restore, preserve and take forward what was of core value to the community as a whole. “Some supporters said they view this moment in a historical context, noting the need for the organisation to purge itself every 30 years or so. Others have suggested that the teachings can now prevail without the shadow of duplicity that has hung over the community for many years.” The report said these questions also needed to be considered: How could the voices of multiple women who alleged sexual misconduct and abuse of power at the hands of Bhajan go unheeded for such a long time in a community rooted in compassion? Is such secrecy beneficial to the overall goals of the 3HO/Sikh Dharma? Going forward, can the community rally around Bhajan’s own advice, to follow the teachings, not the teacher? Since the report, the Siri Singh Sahib Corporation (under which Bhajan’s for-profit and non-profit holdings were consolidated) has offered counselling services to the victims and is working on additional forms of assistance. The corporation listed the steps it was taking to help heal divisions and pain in the community. In summary, they are: Compassionate reconciliation based on the principles of restorative justice. Internal policy review. Hiring an external consultant to advise the Office of Ethics and Professional Standards. Commitment to providing safe and protective environments for all community members, and responding to allegations of harm in a timely and appropriate manner moving forward. Requesting community feedback through Listening Tour forums. The 3HO Foundation SA, an organisation under which Kundalini Yoga SA falls, said in a statement that it was filled with mixed emotions after the findings of the report. “We are shocked, angered and saddened that the founder and leader of this school of yoga was found to have committed such egregious acts over sustained periods of time. “Many people’s lives have been severely harmed. We at 3HO South Africa stand in solidarity with the victims.” The statement said the organisation was going through deep reflection on what the findings meant for the way of life many of his followers had chosen. “The seriousness of all of this is such that we believe it calls for a rewrite of our organisations - a real step into the unknown. It is not enough to rearrange the furniture in the room. What we need to conceive of and manifest is a new room.” It stated that the followers needed to question themselves on how to move forward. “If these teachings are as effective and healing as we have found them to be in our lives, the question now is: “Do we have the capacity to move with the times and reimagine their relevance in a context where all spiritual authority is questioned, and the parameters of human behaviour are being rewritten? “It is our intention to stay in integrity all the way, and make sure that systems are safe, and that people can’t get this hurt again.” POST