Durban - THREE members of a Parlock family, including a baby, were killed in a car crash on Nandi Drive on Sunday afternoon. AK Haffejee, 63, the owner of Inanda Cash and Carry, his wife, Farzana, 52, and their grandson, Zaid, who was 6 months old, died at the scene. Haffejee’s daughter, Juwairriyyah, 22, who was also in the vehicle, is in a critical condition at Netcare St Augustine’s Hospital. Zaid’s mom, Zahra, 25, sustained a broken leg and arm and is at the Lenmed eThekwini Hospital and Heart Centre with his siblings Amal, 3, and Ebrahim, 5. They sustained minor injuries. A relative who did not want to be named said the family was returning home from a trip to the North Coast. “AK, Farzana and Juwairriyyah were travelling in his Toyota Hilux. Zahra was travelling in a VW Golf with her husband, Mohammed, and their three children. “While travelling, Mohammed hit a monkey on the road that damaged his vehicle. The damage was severe, and he could not continue driving the car. “Mohammed contacted a towing company. He waited for them to arrive, while Zahra and the children went ahead in AK’s vehicle. He was driving, while Farzana and Zaid were in the front passenger seat. Zara and Juwairriyyah were in the back seat with Amal and Ebrahim.” He said while on Nandi Drive, just minutes from his home, AK lost control of the vehicle and crashed into a steel structure. “AK, Farzana, and baby Zaid died at the scene. Paramedics had to use the Jaws of Life to remove them from the vehicle. It was horrific.” He described AK as a good man. “He worked hard and established a successful business. “Farzana always supported him. She was a lovely person with a kind heart. Losing baby Zaid, who we only knew for six months, is most heartbreaking. Everyone in our family is struggling to come to terms with his death. “When he was born, he brought so much of joy and happiness into our lives. “Burying three family members all at once was not easy. We are now praying for Zahra, Juwairriyyah and the children to recover. We cannot bear another loss.” They were buried at the Al Hilal Cemetery in Sydenham on Monday. Another relative said the family would continue to run the businesses. “AK grew up in Inanda and moved to Parlock after the riots. The community is close to his heart.” He said Haffejee also owned a farm and abattoir in Camperdown as well as buildings in Durban that provided accommodation to students. Colonel Thembeka Mbele, a provincial police spokesperson, said a case of culpable homicide was being investigated. POST