Durban - KwaZulu-Natal police have launched a public appeal for help in locating five men who are wanted for questioning related to rape cases in the Durban area. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said detectives investigating the three rape cases are hoping the public can help them. Brighton Beach Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit (FCS) at the weekend released the identikits of five men believed could be of assistance in rape cases in Wiggins, Woodlands and Cator Crest in April and July. Gwala said in Cator Crest in April a 15-yeard-old was allegedly raped while her 14-year-old sister sustained a stab wound to the hand. "It is alleged that the victims were asleep with their mother when they were awoken by two males who threatened them with a knife. A 15-year-old woman was allegedly raped by one of the suspects whilst her 14-year-old sister was stabbed on the hand. The suspects fled the scene after an incident," she said. Gwala said in July it was alleged that three men broke into a house in Wiggins and two of them raped a woman. She said the woman awoke at 4am when the men allegedly broke into her home. "At knife point they demanded cash and cellphones, took cash and takkies before fleeing the scene. Charges of house robbery and rape were opened for investigation by Cato Manor SAPS," said Gwala. She said a week after this there was another alleged rape of a 16 -year-old. She said the teen was approached by an unknown man whilst on a sports ground in the area. "The said male pushed, overpowered and raped her. We are making an appeal to members of the community for assistance with regards to the whereabouts of the men depicted in the attached identikits". Acting Director at Childline KZN Adeshni Naicker said whilst many community members feared retribution, such heinous crimes could be solved much quicker with their assistance. "Police identikits are often very accurate and are helpful in bringing perpetrators to book. This simply means that once apprehended the perpetrator is unable to commit another crime. This ultimately means that the people are safe whilst he is off the streets.  Whilst police do as much as they can all South African citizens need to stand up as well in order for the ever increasing crimes stats to decrease," she said. Naicker said when it came to their case loads and reported cases Inanda and KwaMashu remained hotspots. Woodlands area councillor Gavin Hegter said as crime levels increased in the community members needed to stand up a get involved. "It is so sad to hear of the rape of a young woman in our area. The reality is that someone knows the criminal who committed crime. It is our duty to make sure that every crime, no matter how minor it may seem, is reported.We need to start with the less crimes or it will escalate to major crimes that we have been experiencing". Daily News