Durban - RABICHAND Harriram, the owner of popular Cha Cha’s Restaurant, in uMgeni Road died in hospital last Tuesday of kidney failure. He was 73. Harriram, of Effingham Heights, also had a lodge and a bottle store on the premises. In 1975, he took over the long-standing eatery, Cha Cha’s Café. His wife, Manee-Devi, 65, said the father of two had always dreamt of opening his own business. “At the time, he was a manager for a supermarket chain. He found out that the building’s owner wanted a tenant to rent the café. “My husband retained the name but changed the word café to restaurant and he rebuilt the business as it was abandoned by the previous tenant. “My sister, Shanthi, who was married to Rabichand’s brother, joined him in the business and prepared the meals while he took care of the daily operations,” said Manee-Devi Harriram. She said Rabichand bought the three-storey building in 1989 and over the years added a fully-equipped restaurant, a liquor outlet and a 30-room lodge. “Business was great. We had a lot of support, especially from the workers from the surrounding factories such as Lion Match and Union Canvas.” Harriram said her husband was a simple but innovative man. “He was a thinker and always had new ideas to grow the business. “He was also hands-on and was not afraid to pick up a broom or to serve the customers despite having employees. “In the early years, he gave the caddies who worked at the Durban Country Club a free meal because they did not have money to buy food. “Recently, while Rabichand was in the hospital, one of the caddies, who is now a businessman, went to the restaurant to thank him for the support.” Harriram said Rabichand had been a cardiac patient and underwent heart bypass surgery 17 years ago. He recently had kidney failure and started dialysis treatment. “He was admitted in hospital on July 23 and the next day he underwent his first dialysis. He was discharged on July 30. “At his second dialysis treatment on August 6, his blood pressure dropped and he was readmitted. He died on August 11, the same day he was meant to be discharged.” Harriram, who retired as a manager for eThekwini College in April, said they spent a lot of time together during the lockdown. Their nephew, Rakesh, and son-in-law, Vasudev Vhogal, will assist in running the business. POST