Durban - TWO Grade 11 pupils, Alok More and Jaedon Naidu, are among 11finalists to compete in the Applications Computer Olympiad final on Saturday. The annual competition is part of the South African Computer Olympiad and is sponsored by the Institute of IT Professionals in South Africa. Alok, at Glenwood High School, and Jaedon, at Eden College, both 16, are information technology fundis. Faran Steenkamp, a Grade 12 pupil at Thomas More College in Durban, will also represent KwaZulu-Natal. The Applications Computer Olympiad is one of three competitions sponsored by the institute. The others are a talent search and a programming olympiad. Michael Cameron, the manager of the South African Computer Olympiad, said the aim was to identify, encourage and reward computer aptitude. “It is also to encourage computer studies and create awareness of career opportunities in the field of information and communications technology.” Cameron said there were 5823 participants in the first round of the Applications Computer Olympiad. In the second round, the participants were whittled down to 317 and then to 11. The finalists are from KZN, Gauteng, the Western Cape, the Eastern Cape and Mpumalanga. Cameron said each pupil would receive a certificate of participation that could be forwarded to universities for enrolment or to apply for scholarships. He said the winner would receive a trophy, gold medal and R10000 in prize money, and the pupil’s school would receive R4000. The two silver medal winners will receive R6000, and their schools R3000. The three bronze medal winners will receive R3000, and their schools R2000. Alok, from Glenwood, said: “When our school offered IT as a subject last year, I was excited. When our school received the email about the olympiad, I immediately wanted to participate to see how far I could go in the competition.” He said for the first round on March4, they had to analyse data related to Microsoft and answer questions; and the second round on July15 was similar but the questions were more difficult. Alok said he was studying for the final but was nervous. “This is my first olympiad and it will be a great personal achievement if I win. It will also benefit me because I intend on applying for a scholarship to study either biotechnology or genetics engineering at the University of Tokyo or Chitose Institute of Science and Technology in Japan.” Jaedon, from Pinetown, said he and 14 pupils from the school participated and he was the only one to make it to the final. “I am now motivated to win and have been preparing by revising old final papers available on the website.” He has not yet decided what to study after he matriculates. “I love both maths and computers so it would involve either or both of those subjects.” Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the olympiad will not be held in Cape Town but at venues in the respective provinces. It will be invigilated by two teachers. The olympiad will be held at Eden College for the KZN finalists. The results will be announced on August 24 and the awards ceremony will be held at the winner’s school. POST