OPINION - THERE is nothing wrong with ANC leaders, their children or even their friends doing business with the state. The simple truth is that it would be unconstitutional to stop people earning a living by virtue of the fact they are linked in some or other way to a person who holds a position in government. If that was the case, taxpayers would have to pick up the living costs of everyone linked to a person who is authorised to spend government money, and that would not be feasible. Instead, our focus should be on how much the government pays for goods and services and the quality of the work provided. If a minister’s wife, child, extended family or friend can provide a cost-effective and effective solution, there is no reason why the government should not do business with them. The problem now is that tenders are awarded to family and friends at highly inflated prices and often to people who have no or little experience in the work they are required to perform. Following the scandals linked to the procurement of personal protective equipment, Tito Mboweni, our Finance Minister, has called for all such contracts to be published with the full details of the companies which won the tenders. He also wants the details of competitors made public, as well as the reasons their bids failed. This is a step in the right direction because, for far too long, this information has been hidden away from the public. In another positive development, Scopa (Parliament’s standing committee on public accounts) is calling for the public adjudication of tenders. This level of transparency before a tender is awarded is long overdue. All too often, corruption sets in when goods or services need to be procured on an urgent basis. In this case we need to hold the person who awarded the contract to account. If any irregularities emerge, the individual needs to be disciplined. For far too long, there have been no consequences for those who have abused our money. You do, however, get a sense that government is now more serious than ever to root out corruption. This is evident by the committee of Cabinet ministers President Cyril Ramaphosa has set up to probe the procurement of goods and services to fight Covid-19 and the fact that the Special Investigating Unit is investigating the matter. Furthermore, time frames have been set down to provide feedback. But laws alone won’t stop corruption. Individuals also need to act ethically and responsibly. By all means, make a profit. But when you are dealing with taxpayers’ money, keep it reasonable. Furthermore, we need to put an end to whataboutism. We need to stop making excuses for our bad behaviour on the basis that someone else has done the same. POST