 Durban - A PRISONERS’ rights activist said his organisation could no longer manage the number of complaints they have been receiving from inmates since the start of the national lockdown, because they do not have the manpower. This comes after prisoners at Westville Prison complained about Covid-19 and measures implemented by the Department of Correctional Services. “It’s not only Westville, it’s prisons throughout the country,” said Golden Miles Bhudu, from the South African Prisoners’ Organisation for Human Rights. They were relying on communicating with prisoners through their contraband cellphones, via a WhatsApp group. Bhudu said inmates complained about overcrowded prisons, lack of physical distancing and no sanitisation. “We advise them (inmates) to establish an ad hoc committee of five very strong personalities with the intention to start a strong debate, talk and communicate with prison authorities,” said Bhudu. Westville Prison inmates claimed that despite it being level 3 of the national lockdown, they were not allowed any visitors, no hospital, no tuckshop and they were not getting tested. “In my section, Medium B, we’re sick, but we were told that there is no hospital - it was closed and the prison was on lockdown,” said an inmate who did not want to be named. He further alleged they were fed both breakfast and lunch at about 2pm last week because of a Covid-19 case. “We’ve been patient since March. Just because we’re inmates, that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t get food or health care,” he said. They had complained to prisoner activists, but had not received any feedback. Justice for Prisoners and Detainees Trust for Human Rights founder Derrick Mdluli said they, too, had received many complaints, including about overcrowding. “The Department of Correctional Services is faced with overcrowding, but they are trying their best to assist the prisoners where they can manage,” said Mdluli. He said the crux of the problem was that families had not been allowed to visit loved ones in prison for nearly six months, despite it being level 3. Correctional Services provincial spokesperson Thulani Mdluli said the prisoners’ allegations were untrue. “We want to make it clear that we will follow disaster regulations, which include: suspension of visits, access to health care, access to court appearances, access to public phones, giving of awareness and screening,” said Mdluli. He also said inmates were served on time except a slight delay for two units, where they had to implement regulations due to a Covid-19 case that was detected. Daily News