Durban - KwaZulu-Natal police have warned motorists to be extra vigilant of hijackings following a spate of incidents in recent months that have been linked to criminal syndicates. The warning comes amid the annual police crime statistics revealing that hijackings have increased considerably in KwaZulu-Natal. In an incident yesterday, a Merebank resident was hijacked while seated in his BMW in his driveway. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the 35-year-old man was hijacked by four armed men and was also robbed of a licensed firearm. A case of hijacking was opened at the Wentworth SAPS. Private security company PT Alarms tactical unit spokesperson Dhevan Govindasamy said the hijackers tried to force the resident into his car but he managed to fight them off. “Residents are urged to be on high alert for suspicious persons and unknown vehicles loitering in the area,” Govindasamy said. On Tuesday police said said the public is again cautioned to be aware of the continued hijacking modus operandi employed by criminals in the Umkhanyakude District, in the Northern part of the province. Mbele said it is alleged that syndicates are targeting business owners who will receive a call from a member of the gang requesting a call out for a quotation. “On arrival, the victims are directed to a remote area by a member of the gang. Once they arrive at the remote location, they are attacked by armed men,” she said. “The victims are usually robbed at gun point of their belongings as well as the vehicle. The location of these robberies are usually far from the main road or police station and it takes the victims hours to get assistance. Most of these vehicles are taken across the border”. Police are advising business owners are that should they get a call out for any form of service in these areas, they should arrange to meet their clients at the nearest police station. Police in the area should be consulted to ensure that they are not led into a trap and that the call out is indeed legitimate. Police crime statistics between April last year and March 31 this year showed a dramatic rise in hijackings in the country, from 16 026 to 18 162. In KwaZulu-Natal, hijackings increased from 2764 in 2018/19 to 3041 reported cases, a rise of 277. In the Wentworth SAPS area, which covers Merebank, 45 hijackings were reported in 2019/20, 11 more than the previous year. Forty-one cases of car-jacking, an additional 13 cases compared to the previous year, were reported at Berea SAPS between April last year and March this year. Gauteng reported 9025 hijackings while Western Cape reported 2760. Daily News