There was disregard and disrespect: family Durban - THE prayer site that a North Coast Hindu family used has been bulldozed by the KwaDukuza Municipality. Nirmala Devi Maharaj, 74, of Umhlali, has lived on the piece of land all her life. Today, she shares a home, on the plot, with her sons Yoganathan and Rohit, and their families. According to Maharaj, the entire plot belongs to her family. This includes a portion on which her house is built and another portion which the family use as a vegetable garden, an orchard and a prayer site. During Pitra Paksha, a period during which Hindus remember their ancestors, Maharaj made daily food offerings at the prayer site. However, on Monday, an excavator belonging to the municipality, uprooted the orchard, parts of the vegetable garden and the prayer site. Her jhanda, where the family had erected a flag dedicated to the Hindu deity Hanuman, was also destroyed. Her son, Yoganathan, a police captain at Umhlali SAPS, said he was in a meeting when his wife, Indhera, messaged him about the excavation. “By the time I arrived these guys had already started excavating the land. We pleaded with them to stop but they continued. There was disregard and disrespect,” said Yoganathan. “We formed a barricade around the puthu (an anthill viewed as sacred) but they just moved to another part of the property. They uprooted a mango tree, which fell onto the prayer site where my wife had made an offering of vermicelli in the morning. “They also ploughed through half of my wife’s vegetable garden, which also had a macadamia nut tree. The concrete slab of our septic tank was also ripped off.” Yoganathan said the excavation stopped when his brother was injured by the excavator and had to be taken to the hospital. “It is unacceptable that my family has to endure this. My brother got hurt while trying to save our puthu, which has been there for the last 16 years. “If they demolished it, it would have been a desecration. But we fear they will return and destroy it.” Yoganathan said he first became aware that their ownership of some of the four hectares of land was in question when construction began in 2018. “Parts of our land had pegs. I approached the workers on the site at the time and they said a road would be built. I was baffled because it was private land. When I told them this, they said it was municipal land. “Initially, we managed to stop them. I approached the municipality and found out that land was expropriated in 2015. However, there was no notification or meeting.” Yoganathan said the family had arranged to see an attorney to explore their options. Sipho Mkhize, KwaDukuza Municipality (KDM) media liaison officer, said a friendly expropriation as per the Expropriation Act had been conducted. “The land was under a deceased estate at the time of the expropriation so none of the people that are stopping the contractor have locus standi (right or capacity to bring an action or to appear in a court) to do that because the executor of the deceased estate has also passed away. “The municipality has been continuously informing the family to appoint another executor so that they can claim their share of the compensation. “The land was previously owned or registered under the names of more than 15 people who have all deceased but the other families have reported their estates and have collected the compensation. “However, again we wish to stress that Mr Maharaj (Yoganathan) was never the owner nor a beneficiary to this land and to the deceased estate.” Mkhize said the project would continue as planned. “That site will accommodate 14 houses, which means 14 families are waiting for their houses to be built so nothing will stop us as KDM from delivering that right to housing to the 14 families as enshrined in the Constitution.” Ashwin Trikamjee, president of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, said the family should seek legal advice. Supplied NIRMALA Devi Maharaj at the prayer site which the KwaDukuza Municipality wanted to destroy. | POST