Durban - IT HAS been just more than two years since Pastor Julian Pillay and his family moved to Canada and while he misses South Africa, Canada is the place he calls home. Pillay lived in the town of St Stephen in New Brunswick and recently moved to Riverview. The Anglican clergyman grew up in Phoenix in Durban and spent many years serving at the Emmanuel Church Phoenix. “An opportunity came up for me in Canada, so we prayed about it and decided to take this leap of faith,” said Pillay. He left with his wife, Michelle, and their son, Christopher, in April 2018. He said he had to apply for a work permit and a visa and that he had to meet the immigration criteria. “The factors that are considered include your age, qualification, experience, whether you have a job and can positively contribute to Canadian society or whether you are going to feed off the public funds.” Pillay said they only took a few suitcases of clothing. “We had to buy and build, which was expensive. It reached a point where Michelle had to work so that we could subsidise our income. We also had expenses to pay in South Africa.” The couple had to retake their driving licences and this cost C$2 000 (about R25 500). “The people were friendly and welcoming. I remember days when I would open the front door and find baskets of fruit and vegetables on our doorstep. People would do this anonymously.” Cards were left in the post box on birthdays, anniversaries, Christmas or Easter – money, too, on the odd occasion. Pillay is the rector of St John the Baptist Anglican Church in Riverview where many of the residents speak English and French. He said it was fortunate that his 14-year-old son had studied French to converse with the locals. Pillay said that while Canada was an expensive country to live in, it was affordable for most people “because everyone is paid a minimum wage and a fair salary”. “It is not just opportunities but equal opportunities. Every person who lives and works in Canada has the opportunity to grow and develop.” In the course of adapting to a new country, Pillay has learnt about hockey, the country’s most popular spectator sport, and American football. Christopher now plays basketball for the school team. “God has been gracious to us. We have made new friends, learnt a new culture and learnt how to fit in, blend and enjoy this part of God’s creation. Canada is going to be our home for a while, until such time as God sees fit for us to move again.” POST