Durban - THREE armed robbers pounced on a Reservoir Hills family on Sunday morning. A police source said a 67-year-old woman, her daughter and grandson were at home when three men brandishing firearms and wearing balaclavas entered the house through an unlocked kitchen door. The women were in the lounge about to take parcels to the car. The grandson, who was in the shower, was apparently pulled out of the bathroom and made to lie down on the floor with his mother and grandmother. The men ransacked the house and beat up the grandson while asking where the safe was. The robbers took computer accessories, a TV, a pair of gold earrings, the house keys and two car keys in the wall unit. Despite taking the car keys, the men could not get the garage door open. It was unclear if they wanted to drive off with the car. The neighbours noticed something untoward and pressed their panic button. The alarm startled the robbers who fired several gun shots as they were fleeing. Police apparently found several spent cartridges at the scene. The family declined to comment. Inkosi Security Services spokesperson Rodney Moodley said the robbery happened at 8am. “The suspects gained access to the property by jumping the fence. They fled in a VW Jetta that was parked nearby. The cellphone was dropped near the scene. The Jetta was found in Ntuzuma after a chase by police and security companies. The suspects abandoned the car. The TV and laptop were recovered,” he said. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said a case of house robbery was opened at Sydenham SAPS. Reservoir Hills Community Policing Sector's Ray Jeawon said that over the past week the Automatic Number-Plate Recognition (ANPR) fitted at the entrance and exit of the suburb has led to five vehicles used in crimes elsewhere being stopped by security teams and police. Jeawon said they have made a considerable effort to reduce crime in the area. “When a crime is committed anywhere in the country the number plates are logged into a database. These cameras alert security and community policing forums when suspicious vehicles enter the suburb. We cordon off the area with police until the car is found. The occupants are profiled by police and the vehicle is impounded.” Jeawon said: “We have to take back our streets. We need sponsors from within the community to assist in covering operational costs.” Daily News