Durban - A NORTH Coast pensioner was punched in the face and her teenage son assaulted during a robbery at their home in Tea Estate, Inanda last Thursday evening. Feroza Sayed Ebrahim, 68, was alone in her home waiting for her 18-year-old son, Saheel, to return from the shop with her supper and medication. “I was feeling unwell. I heard Saheel’s car come into our driveway, so I went to our kitchen door to wait for him. “There were two men at the entrance of the driveway and three others were at the back of our property. I believe they were keeping watch. The men pointed their guns at him, demanding the vehicle, a Nissan Livina. Saheel tried to drive off. He was in a state of shock and drove into a ditch.” Ebrahim said she phoned her daughter, Rakeeba Osman, for help. “She lives in Clare Estate but got in touch with Reaction Unit South Africa. The men grabbed Saheel from the car. They shoved him around before throwing him on the floor. They took some cash and his keys. “ She said they brought him at gunpoint to the kitchen door and were joined by their three other men. “Using Saheel’s key, they opened the gate and entered our home. One of the robbers punched me in my face, injuring my jaw. All they wanted was money. I told them I didn’t have any. “I was angry at what they did. I told them to leave my house because I have called the police and the security company. I don’t know where I got the strength to speak up.” Ebrahim said that after a few minutes of looking around the house they fled. “As they were leaving they began firing shots in the air. We did not see what vehicle they fled in. “I believe Saheel and I are alive today because of my prayers. There is a robbery in our neighbourhood almost every day. Saheel no longer wants to live here. He is scared and traumatised.” Ebrahim said she grew up in the area and this was the first time she felt scared in her own home. Her neighbour, Hafeeza Sayed, said she believed a syndicate was operating in the area. “We need police patrols. We don’t have a Community Police Forum or a neighbourhood watch. Two people were held up at our mosque. These robbers did not care that it was a place of worship. We had a couple, just a few roads from us, who were beaten about two weeks ago during a home invasion.” Sayed said it was only a matter of time before the robbers killed someone. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said a case of house robbery was being investigated. No arrests have been made. POST