Durban - SCHOOL governing bodies and teacher unions have welcomed the decision to ease the criteria for those who will mark the 2020 National Senior Certificate examination papers. But they hope the quality of marking will not be compromised. Last week, a circular was signed by Mathanzima Mweli, the director-general of the Department of Education, informing provincial heads of department that the selection criteria for markers would be relaxed. In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, markers who were above the age of 60, or had comorbidities, may not offer their services, depending on the country’s lockdown level. The circular said that those who fell under either category and were at home following the reopening of schools on June 8, would not be eligible to be appointed markers if the country was at alert level 2 or 3 in January. They could resume work only under alert level 1. “The Covid-19 pandemic and the Risk Adjusted Strategy would impact on the availability of markers across all provinces given the risks associated with large gatherings and the large number of educators that are over the age of 60 and those with comorbidities,” read the circular. The combined June and November examination will start from November 5 and end on December 15. Matric marking is scheduled to take place between January 4 and 22. Normally, matric teachers with a minimum of two years’ experience on the subject or language were prioritised for marking. In the new relaxed selection criteria, teachers teaching Grade 11 were allowed to apply, provided they have taught the subject in Grade 12 for a minimum of two years in the past five years. However, in the case of languages, specific to literature, the applicants must have taught the 2020 Grade 12 genres that were being tested. Also, provincial heads were allowed to exceed the permitted 10% of new markers per subject, per paper, to 15%. In cases where the required number of markers could not be achieved, the criteria can be further relaxed, provided it did not compromise the quality of marking. Markers from last year were also asked to return. Paul Colditz, the chief executive of the Federation of Governing Bodies of South African Schools, said it was understandable that there were shortages as a result of Covid-19 and commended the department for being pro-active. “We support the initiative, provided that teachers who have not taught a subject at Grade 12 level and do not have the experience in teaching particular subjects should not be appointed. The measures put in place by the department also appear to be adequate.” Colditz said he was certain that the relaxed criteria would not hamper the quality of marking or national pass rate. “There are moderators overseeing the work of the markers and if the quality of the marking is not as required, they should be able to address the issues immediately.” Matakanye Matakanya, the general secretary of the National Association of School Governing Bodies, said under the Covid-19 conditions, the association supported the option. “However, it must be for those who teach the subject and have more than five years’ experience. “There is a possibility the relaxed criteria may have an adverse impact due to the experience of the markers. We believe that any teacher who falls short of experience and wants to apply should undergo intensive training beforehand.” Nomarashiya Caluza, the spokesperson for South African Democratic Teachers Union in KwaZulu-Natal, said: “The policy on the selection of markers does allow for the appointment of Grade 11 teachers even though it prioritises those in Grade 12. So, the pronouncement by the department on this matter is correct and the relaxation is not outside the policy.” Rishal Juguth, the executive officer of the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa), said it welcomed the decision to include applicants who marked last year as their experience would be beneficial. Juguth said Naptosa knew of many senior, deputy chief and chief markers who worked remotely due to the comorbidity concession and were unsure of their return to marking. He said while they understood the reasons for increasing the percentage of novice markers, they were, however, concerned that the decision could impact the quality of marking if the markers were not properly guided. The union has also appealed to the department to consider Grade 11 teachers only if all other options had been exhausted. “The Grade 11 educators will have to have Grade 12 teaching experience in order to be considered. We be- lieve that quality marking is integral to the process.” Juguth said the union had raised its concerns at national level regarding the stringent protocols the department would need to put in place for the exam. He said the Department of Education in KZN would finalise the marker selection this month and that the union would deploy observers to the marker selection process. Monitors would visit the exam and marking centres to ensure all protocols were followed. Kwazi Mthethwa, the education spokesperson in KZN, said the province had engaged in frequent meetings to ensure its state of readiness. “We have had a handful of those who had co-morbidities who were on leave but I don’t think it will be a crisis during the exam period. “We have had a good track record so far and, should we incur a shortage, we will act in accordance with the national department, of course taking into account provincial factors.” POST