Unapproved road signs erected by the upmarket gated residential suburb Cowies Hill Estate in Pinetown were cut down by the eThekwini Municipality. The Cowies Hill Estate precinct consists of 782 properties, 460 estate members, and is made up of five separate areas. The white-and-green signs, erected on metal poles, are large and clearly visible and bear the name of the estate, road name, a number and Shelley Residential real estate agency’s name at the bottom. In a letter issued to members of the estate last week, the committee said that on September 10 contractors entered the gated estate and used angle grinders to cut down the signs. “We were redirected to eThekwini Signs Department, and learned that they had received an anonymous lengthy e-mail from a Cowies Hill resident complaining about the signs.” The department temporarily halted the cutting down of the signs pending discussions with the committee. However, the committee decided to remove the remaining signs at its own cost while discussions continued. It said there was a need to improve the estate’s road signage because many roads no longer had signs and they wanted to make it easier for emergency response teams to navigate the precinct. “The cost of erecting quality signage is high and we were approached by Shelley Residential, who offered to fund a project,” said the committee in a letter to residents. Scott Allnatt, the managing director of Shelley Residential, said that after learning about the community initiative to improve the security and beautification of the estate, they offered assistance. “We were obviously saddened by the situation as the majority of the residents are in favour of the new road signage and the display of the Shelley Residential branding,” said Allnatt. He added that the committee had assured them that they were in productive discussions with the eThekwini Signs Department. A letter posted by a frustrated resident on social media and addressed to the anonymous person who complained to the municipality said the complaint was an attempt to undermine the efforts by the majority towards the greater good of the community. Melanie Brauteseth, eThekwini ward 18 councillor, said all public signage in the city was governed by the relevant by-laws and had to be approved by the appropriate authorities. “Residents of the newly formed Cowies Hill Estate were not aware of this protocol requirement and erected excellent quality, discreet street signs within the estate,” she said. She added that residents had repeatedly drawn attention to the missing, dilapidated and barely legible existing municipal road signage “which has been neglected by the authorities for a long time”. This had led to a number of difficulties in the area, such as responders to emergencies not being able to find locations quickly, she said. Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said the estate had acknowledged that the signs were removed because they were unauthorised. “The owners of the signs are aware we will remove any unauthorised signage from municipal property.” Mayisela added that the issue of fines would be raised in due course once the matter had been settled. The municipality by-laws clearly stated that the naming of public roads must be in compliance with the policy dealing with road naming and the South African Geographical Names Council Act, 1998, Act No.118 of 1998. Section 7(1) of the Outdoor Advertising By-Laws of 2018 states that any person who wishes to display an outdoor advertising sign or alter an existing outdoor sign other than an exempted outdoor advertising sign must make a written application to the municipality for a permit to display or alter the sign. The Mercury