Durban - IN LESS than 24 hours two separate rape cases were opened with the Verulam police on Monday, with one of the alleged victims being 11 years old. There was no arrest in either case, which occurred 10 hours apart. On Monday morning, a 26-year-old woman was allegedly raped during a robbery in Waterloo. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said it was alleged that the woman was on her way to work when she was accosted by two unknown men. “They overpowered and raped her, before fleeing the scene with her cellphone and cash. Charges of rape and robbery were opened at Verulam Police Station,” she said. Reaction Unit SA (Rusa) was called by the woman’s employers after she had informed them of her ordeal. Spokesperson Prem Balram said when his officers arrived at the woman’s place of employment, she told them that one of the suspects drew a knife and placed it on her back while his accomplice robbed her of her cellphone and wallet. “According to the woman, the two men took turns in raping her on the side of the road. Both suspects wore face masks and baseball caps. They fled on foot afterwards,” he said. Police were also still investigating the alleged rape on Sunday of an 11-year-old girl. Gwala said the incident took place at Mountview in Verulam, where the girl was allegedly raped by a known male. “A case of rape was opened at Verulam Police Station,” said Gwala. According to Balram, they received a call from a member of the public at about 7.53pm, after he noticed a man walking with a child towards the tennis courts on Amora Drive in Mountview. He said, on arrival, officers were told the child had been located on the R102 after her family and the community organised a search party, and she had been taken home. “Rusa medics proceeded to the home and the child explained that while walking to a tuck shop with friends, she was accosted by a man who was dark in complexion, dressed in a white T-shirt and black pants. He convinced her to leave the group, saying he required her assistance in collecting R800 owed to him. The girl proceeded with the man to the tennis courts, where he attempted to strangle her before he raped her.” Daily News