Durban - SOME of the eThekwini Municipality’s municipal flats are being illegally sub-let. The municipality said they were aware of the problem and that certain individuals had been taken to task. This was after residents at Kenneth Gardens and Nerina Flats in Umbilo expressed their unhappiness about having to pay for their flats while certain individuals rented out their units for profit. “We have been telling the municipality about these illegal tenants. We are not taken seriously because it would seem that these people have connections at the municipality. How can you drive a Mercedes-Benz yet you can’t afford a house? You live with us here and the next thing we don’t see you. In your unit we see strangers and when we talk to them they tell us that they are renting the unit,” said a Nerina Flats resident. “The city should ensure that people who live in these flats are vetted and found to be qualifying. This political administration is shooting itself in the foot because we won’t tolerate this for too long. It’s enough now.” A resident in Kenneth Gardens said the city should have a list of who occupied units in the flats. “These people can afford homes yet they were given units in these flats and because they can afford to live flashy lives they make extra money by sub-letting the units. When there’s a burst pipe the occupants don’t care and their ‘landlords’ don’t care because they live their own lives somewhere out there knowing that the city will fix the problem at the ratepayers’ expense,” said the resident. City spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said that in a recent verification exercise it was discovered that there were tenants who sub-let units, as well as a few other individuals who occupied the units illegally. “A legal process is under way to address this and allocate these units to deserving, qualifying individuals. The city welcomes reports of such illegal sub-letting without consent of our sub-letting policy. The city updates its tenants’ profiles regularly, and no services are executed if the occupant is an illegal tenant,” said Mayisela. He said there was a sub-letting policy within the council “which is in no way meant to enrich anyone, other than assisting the legal tenant to afford rentals and utilities”. “The city has approximately 6 000 units under its administration and out of that 1 500 units are under the administration of central Durban. Those who are illegally sub-letting the units are actually facing the music and the city is appealing to residents to come forward with details of whoever they suspect to be engaging in this illegal act.” Dave Ferguson, from the now-defunct central Outer West Ratepayers’ Association, said the city had no control over the flats it owned. “In my view people who do little or nothing for the benefit of the ratepayers don’t feel pressure because they know the system is weak and they won’t be called to order. Too many people abuse the system because they know there are no checks and balances.” Daily News