Durban - THERE was mixed reaction to Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu’s revelation last week that the department was deliberating moving Addington Hospital. She said the 141-year-old hospital has been plagued by infrastructure problems in recent years, with the most recurrent being the facility’s lifts. Speaking at an online parliamentary meeting the MEC attributed these issues to the hospital’s position on the beachfront. “The issue of lifts at Addington Hospital are going to continue to be a problem primarily because of the location of the hospital. Addington is located on the beachfront in an area that is close to the hotels and is almost eight storeys high. The salt air affects our lifts continually. As a result we are looking at options of moving the hospital and building a structure that is manageable and friendly to patients.” Department spokesperson Ntokozo Maphisa said rebuilding the hospital would allow the department to decrease expenses while maximising the use of the facility. “As part of fiscal responsibility, the department is always looking for opportunities to optimise the usage of its financial, human and material resources to make much-needed savings and ensure best practice. “By virtue of Addington Hospital’s age, location along the coastline and large catchment area, the facility’s health technology equipment and other crucial infrastructure is vulnerable to constant malfunctioning. The department ends up spending millions of rand each year on repairing or replacing this infrastructure.” Maphisa said that the project was still in its infancy and further details would be revealed in future. DA spokesperson for Health, Rishigen Viranna, said he expected that the hospital would be built over the next 15 to 20 years. “As the DA, we first want the Department of Public Works report to be presented and scrutinised by the health portfolio committee. We want to see their cost/benefit analysis. Also, before planning begins there has to be extensive public consultation.” IFP spokesperson for Health Ncamisile Nkwanyana welcomed the idea but said the party remained concerned with the facility’s present problems. “Not all the issues at Addington are to be blamed on the infrastructure. Addington has issues with staff shortages and, most recently, cleanliness issues, which should be resolved now.” Daily News