Durban - TWO men who allegedly guarded and tended to the needs of kidnapped businesswoman Sandra Munsamy must wait until Monday to hear if they would be granted bail. Detectives investigating the kidnapping remained defiant yesterday that they had a watertight case against all four accused, despite being cross-examined on the State’s “weak case” by the men’s respective defence attorneys at the Durban Regional Court. Munsamy was travelling in Pinetown on May 30 last year when she was kidnapped by a group of armed men. Police rescued Munsamy from a house in Witbank in Gauteng on November 7 - 162 days later. She was found with a chain padlocked around her ankle, restricting her movement to ablutions and sleeping. During her confinement, demands for a ransom of R10 million were made to her family. Detectives said the men could not be named to protect the integrity of the investigation. Warrant officer Abraham Sonnekus, from the Directorate of Priority Crime Investigations (DPCI) Port Shepstone, testified yesterday in response to defence attorney Mxolisi Nxasana’s claim that his client, accused 3, was not part of the syndicate that kidnapped Munsamy. He said accused 3 made frequent trips to Mozambique because his cousin lived there. Accused 3 had four children and was married. Nxasana said his client lived a life free of crime. Nxasana said his client was looking for a job to feed his family. He went to the house where Munsamy was found in Witbank and now he found himself in this situation. Accused 4’s attorney, Thobile Sigcau, claimed his client was a builder. Sonnekus testified that the accused, through cellphone records and interactions with the estate agent and maintenance workers of the house where Munsamy was found, placed accused 3 at the house in Witbank since June. The padlock key for the chain around Munsamy’s ankle was found in accused 3’s pocket. Sonnekus said accused 3 gave Munsamy the phone on several occasions to speak to the family. He provided her with food and clothing. He also testified that accused 3 provided a false name to the estate agent and maintenance personnel. Witness statements also identified accused 3 through a defect on his tooth and facial description. Nxasana argued no identity parade had been held since the men’s arrest. Sonnekus said because of Covid-19 restrictions and cross-province travel restrictions, it could not be held. Daily News