Durban - HAVING started his career on the streets of the Durban CBD to later owning studios across the country, Rakesh Baliraj Panday was no stranger to the world of photography. Panday, 56, who was fondly known as “Pops”, of uMhlanga, died in hospital last Wednesday of lung failure. He had tested positive for Covid-19 last month. Panday, who was married to Anila and has two children, Yasheen and Tashmeve, opened Panday’s Studio in 1985. “My dad’s name was synonymous with the term photography, an industry he dominated until his untimely death due to Covid-19 complications,” said Yasheen. “He was such a humble, self-made man, full of energy, life and with a boisterous laugh that would fill a room and captivate his peers.” Yasheen said his father and mother, Anila, had a true “rags-to-riches story”. “My parents met while studying at the University of Durban-Westville in 1982. He was studying accounting and my mum was studying to be a teacher. They fell in love and decided to get married. “While my dad always dreamt about being a chartered accountant, he also knew he had to support them, and he decided to drop out, to start the business.” “Dad’s granddad and his dad both did photography and my dad would work in his father’s studio after school and on weekends. “To get the business off the ground, my dad pawned by mum’s wedding jewellery and bought his first camera - it was a second-hand Yashica, from which my name originates,” he said. “My parents had a small shop in Leopold Street in the CBD. They would approach people walking on the street to take their pictures, from couples to families. “From there he moved to other shops in town while building his name and brand. He finally moved to the LCT Centre in Queen (Denis Hurley) Street, which is still open to date. Dad then went on to open studios across the country,” he said. Yasheen said Panday got his first big break after he was given the opportunity to do school pictures. “It was that one principal that took a chance on dad, and despite it not being perfect the first time, he ensured it was the second time. “From there, he built his business and became an official photographer for school pictures, university graduations and weddings, nationwide. “The business grew to provide its service to over 500 schools. He was also appointed as one of the official photographers for the University of KZN’s graduations from 1985 to date. The growth was exponential and he had a staff complement of nearly 80,” he said. Yasheen said the business also received multiple accolades over the years. In 2014, the Nelson Mandela Foundation granted permission for Panday’s Studio to produce a commemorative brochure to educate the youth on “The Madiba Story”. It was produced for pupils from 1000 schools in South Africa. Yasheen said his father had tested positive on July 14 and had been self-isolating at home. “He was doing well and he didn’t want to go to hospital at the time. He wanted to recover at home. But he took a sudden turn for the worse about three weeks ago and was hospitalised. His passing came as a devastating shock to our entire family and to all those who knew him.” Yasheen said Panday had planned to retire at the end of this year and spend time with his grandchildren. “My dad could not wait to spend time with them. He also loved to travel, together with mom. He had visited over 30 countries, his favourites being India and Singapore. “After retirement, he had planned to spend his days travelling to every corner of the world. He especially looked forward to visiting Shirdi, the birthplace of Sai Baba,” he said. Yasheen said Panday was an extremely kind and big-hearted person. “He would strike up a conversation with anyone and make friends easily. We will not forget the words of wisdom he would share that there is no problem that cannot be overcome through hard work and perseverance. “After 30 years, and with my mom at his side, he built a brand that touched the lives of millions of South Africans by capturing their most precious memories,” he said. Panday’s funeral took place at the Clare Estate Crematorium last Thursday. POST