Durban – A Chatsworth family is hoping they can find closure after the man who had been accused of killing their mother was found guilty this week. It has been three years since Salma and Afzal Sheik were run over multiple times outside their Woodhurst home in front of their family. Salma, 43, who worked at a crèche, died at the scene while her husband Afzal, 48, escaped with a fractured spine and ribs. In August 2017, Rayen Chetty, 27, who had been in a relationship with the couple’s oldest daughter, Raheesa, went to the family home to discuss an argument they had the night before. While there, an argument broke out between Chetty and Raheesa’s uncle, who lives on the property. During the trial last year, it emerged that when the argument started Chetty started to leave the home but continued to exchange words with the Sheik family. Chetty testified he got into his vehicle but family members blocked his way and he could not move forward. As a result, he reversed. At that time, Salma and her husband were standing at the side and the back of the vehicle. When Chetty reversed, Salma was knocked over and he drove over her body. Afzal tried to pick up his wife but the vehicle moved forward, going over Salma’s body again and also knocking Afzal over. The vehicle went over Sheik’s body a number of times before it hit a neighbour’s driveway wall and came to a stop. Chetty fled the scene and handed himself over to police two days later. He faced charges of murder and attempted murder. On Monday, Chetty was tearful as he listened to Magistrate Sophie Reddy deliver her judgment. Reddy said it was clear that Chetty had the intention to drive over Sheik and Afzal as she had tried to stop him from driving off with her daughter. “The accused deliberately drove over the deceased and her husband with furious determination. On so many occasions he went back and forth. The accused had shown the clear intention. “The court is satisfied that in totality of all of the evidence that both counts of murder of Salma Sheik and attempted murder of Afzal Sheik had been proven beyond reasonable doubt. He is found guilty of count one and two.” Chetty cried. Afzal said he was happy with the outcome and prayed that Chetty was given a harsh sentence on Friday. “The truth always prevails. The past three years have not been easy for me at all. I lost my wife and my kids lost their mom. For the past three years we have suffered and we are still traumatised by what took place. My kids were all teenagers who needed their mom when we lost her. “He did the crime. It is only fair he does the time. I pray the accused rehabilitates himself, thinks of his actions and does not repeat the same again. “I am trying to finally get closure now that this case is over and I know my wife is resting in peace now that she has justice.” Afzal also thanked Desiree Boyang, the prosecutor, for her efforts in ensuring they got justice. Salma’s sister, Karima Abdul, said: “I did not know how to react. I have been waiting for justice for so long but the case was always delayed. When I got the news, I cried and I laughed at the same time. I felt a heavy burden being lifted off me”. Abdul said she shared a special bond with her sister and she had spent the last three years praying for justice. “Our mom died when we were all young. Salma was the baby. I looked after her and always protected her. Even after she married and had kids, I would check on her. A month before she died, we spent a day together shopping. It was so wonderful and she said we needed to do more things more often. I didn’t realise that was my last day with her. “I still remember her death. We got a call to say there was an accident but when we got there, there was a body covered. I knew it was her. I passed out because of the shock.” Abdul said sitting in court also took a toll on her. “I would attend almost every case to listen to what happened on the day. When someone would be testifying, I would try to picture it in my head. I always left court upset at what my sister went through. I was even hospitalised for a week earlier in the year because of the stress of the case. I was told I had severe depression.” Abdul said she hoped Chetty would be given a harsh sentence. “My sister did not deserve the death she had. She was a kind-hearted person. She even treated him (Rayen) as a son. He needs to suffer the pain we have been feeling. “She even missed the birth of her first grandchild. She would have loved her grandchild but she was robbed of that opportunity.” POST