Durban - KWAZULU-NATAL violence monitor Mary de Haas has urged police crime intelligence to work harder to curb the increasing number of illegal guns used in armed robberies. This comes after several violent business and home robberies that took place in Durban in the first weekend of September. “There are just too many guns and the police are clearly not doing enough. The syndicates are also targeting businesses and suburban houses to make quick cash. The availability of guns for these people is the main reason why this crime is rising,” said De Haas. Over the weekend, staff arriving at an Umbilo supermarket on Teignmouth Road were attacked. According to Blue Security’s Andreas Mathios, eight armed suspects arrived in a vehicle and proceeded to assault and rob employees waiting outside to start their shift. Mathios said the suspects then fled in a getaway vehicle. KZN Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed the incident, saying a case of armed robbery was opened at Umbilo police station for investigation. She said the police were always conducting visible operations in the area. According to Mathios, there were also similar incidents reported around Durban, including in Durban North, Seaview and Umgeni Business Park. He said armed gangs robbed various businesses of computer hardware and fire equipment and looted others as well as inflicting massive damage to properties. In another incident, a security guard was allegedly held up by a firearm-wielding suspect who ordered him to open the main gate of a business premises in Seaview this weekend. Mathios said three more suspects then drove on to the property and forced their way into the building. “They proceeded to remove a large amount of computer equipment, which included 14 monitors, a flatscreen TV and 14 computer boxes. The gang then made their getaway in the awaiting vehicle,” he said. Mathios said they also received reports that another far larger gang of suspects had invaded two neighbouring business premises in Umbilo on Sunday morning. He said their officer responded to an alarm activation and, on arrival, he saw at least 10 suspects at the entrance door. He said he immediately called for back-up. “When the suspects noticed the unit’s presence they opened fire on the officers before fleeing in the direction of the railway line near Truro Road,” he said. De Haas said another problem was that there was a poorly regulated security industry in the country. “The security industry is armed to the teeth and they are not properly regulated. “Something must be done about it. The police, together with the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority (Psira) need to do regular check-ups on these companies. “Most of the companies have guns that are not even registered with Psira,” she said. De Haas said such crimes instilled fear in business owners and endangered the lives of workers. “Most of these crimes are carried out almost like military operations. This type of crime is not only on the rise in Durban, but it’s increasing around the province, especially in the suburbs.” The Mercury