Durban - THE Pietermaritzburg man charged with the kidnapping and rape of his neighbour alleges that they had been in relationship and that she willingly drove with him to Hillcrest, where she says she was raped twice. He said her actions in bringing charges against him were a “severe abuse of the justice system by a jilted jealous ex-lover”. This emerged in the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court yesterday, where the man was granted R3 000 bail. He is said to have kidnapped a 28-year-old woman in Allandale, Pietermaritzburg, on August 6 and driven with her to Hillcrest, where he locked her in a room and raped her on more than one occasion. Attorney Wesley Rogers, reading from his client’s affidavit for bail, said yesterday that the woman had been in an “on-and-off relationship” with his client. He said the woman lived on the same rented property as his client, but in a different unit. “The nature of our relationship while dating was primarily sexual. We had an arrangement where she would come and spend the night in my unit, what we termed as date, this would lead to sex... She became irrationally jealous when she learnt I had sexual intercourse with two other females on our property,” the man said in his affidavit. He said the woman’s family was not aware of their relationship as they were conservative and would not have approved. Rogers said his client had also lent the woman his Volvo when her car had broken down, and she was outraged when he took it back . He said the man had not kidnapped the woman, who is alleged to have made a 30-minute call to a relative while driving with him to Assagay. Rogers said the two were at a B & B from August 6 to 8. Had she been held against her will, she would have had time to alert staff or other guests. “On the morning of August 8 she wanted cigarettes. She got into my car and we went to Shongweni. We stopped at four spaza shops before we found cigarettes, which I bought for her. We went to a McDonald’s drive-through in Hillcrest to get food. She had ample time to get attention if she was being held against her will,” the man said. Rogers said the women’s denial of consensual sex was an effort to save her reputation with her conservative family. He said the woman became angry after his client told her that he would request an Uber for her to return home. “I told her I was going to drive to the South Coast as I was depressed... we argued... She wanted to buy medication and I drove her to the pharmacy. While I was busy there, she absconded. “I thought she did that to force my hand to drive her home. I left her to fend for herself... I was tired of emotional manipulation. I proceeded to the South Coast where I was arrested in a public place,” he said. In granting bail, Magistrate Gwendolyn Robinson said there were several factors that could have been investigated further by the State for the bail application. “Why the B & B staff were not interviewed; that’s one of the things,” Robinson said. She granted the man bail on strict conditions, including that he relocate to an alternative address, he report to his nearest police station, and not interfere with witnesses. “I advise you not to message the witnesses, even through another person or social media,” she said. Daily News