Durban - FROM a young age Phoenix Muslim School alumna Jamila Janna was drawn to nature, which set her on a path to fighting for the future of the planet. Originally from the Eastern Cape, Janna moved to KwaZulu-Natal in 2003 and completed her matric at Phoenix Muslim School. She obtained a Bachelor of Science degree and Honours in Marine Biology from the University of KwaZulu-Natal, and is a Master’s candidate at the University of Stellenbosch. Janna said that her family had encouraged her throughout her journey, and because of that inspiration she hoped to emulate her “idol”, ecologist Tembisa Jordaan. “My parents and my nieces inspire me to do great things, for them and because of them. There are many inspirations in the conservancy field but Tembisa Jordaan has been an idol. This is because she and many other female marine scientists have been able to see themselves beyond just being graduates and have made an impact with their amazing work.” Janna has made inroads in conservation. A documentary she produced with a colleague, titled Hluleka, was featured on Sabc 2’s 50/50 environmental programme earlier this month. The documentary was filmed in the Eastern Cape, tackling a community’s issues with protected marine areas. “The documentary focuses on the smallest marine protected area and unpacks an emotional journey showcasing the history, present as well as the future, through the facilitation of social-based discussions in decision-making,” said Janna. At the moment attaining her Master’s degree is at the top of her list, but after this she will pursue working for an organisation targeting community- based conservation - but if that fails she has no qualms in starting one of her own. Janna’s former teacher at Phoenix Muslim School, Rehanna Buckus, expressed immense pride in Janna’s achievements. “We are so proud to see her excel and becoming all she ever could be. Jamila is a fine example for other students to follow, and we are very excited to see what the next chapter on her journey will bring.” Daily News