Durban - FUNERAL services will be disrupted countrywide from Monday until Wednesday, following a call for a total shutdown of services by a union of funeral associations, to force the Health Department to listen to their concerns about the industry. Thokozani Dladla, convener of the Unification Task Team (UTT), a formation of funeral associations and forums, said no human remains would be fetched from state mortuaries, public and private hospitals, or homes, by undertakers. Dladla said no funerals would be conducted until the government listens to the industry. “Our industry is one that is heavily regulated. When we have issues with the government, we go in circles from department to department. We have requested a central government office in any of the departments that we work with, so that it is easy to deal with matters. Last year, undertakers formed this task team so that we all speak with one voice. Since we have not been getting any joy from the government on issues raised, we decided to withdraw our services, meaning that we won’t be doing any human remains removals from government and private facilities. This will be a national total shutdown lasting from Monday to Wednesday, September 16,” he said. Among their grievances, undertakers want recognition and legalisation of the outsourcing of mortuary facilities. “All funeral directors sharing storage facilities on a lease agreement or ownership (including mortuary ownership) must each qualify for ownership of the certificate of competence for that particular facility. Funeral directors must be able to appoint a proxy to conduct some of the duties on their behalf,” Dladla said. He said they also wanted the amendment of by-laws to accommodate the building of bulk, cluster or complex storage. Another demand is the allocation of a Covid-19 Relief Fund for the funeral industry. “We raised this matter with Minister Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and the national health director in three different meetings, but our plea fell on deaf ears,” Dladla said Provincial Health Department head Dr Sandile Shabalala said they were aware of the strike. “We have consulted with our principals, requesting advice on how best we should handle the imminent strike. We are working on a plan,” Tshabalala said. Daily News