Durban - Police Minister Bheki Cele says detectives are searching for the killers who shot dead nine people in two separate incidents in KwaNdengezi, near Pinetown, at the weekend. In the first incident, it is alleged that four people aged between 17 and 24 were shot dead after they were accused of stealing stock in the area. Nhlanhla Shange, Thobani Nene, Sthembiso Sithole and Simphiwe Khan­yile were found dead in a soccer field. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed that charges of murder were being investigated by KwaNdengezi police station. A few hours later, six people, including three women, were seated in a vehicle when they were approached by armed men who demanded they get out of it. It is alleged that the suspects ordered them to lie face down before shooting them. Nkanyiso Mthembu, Wonder Ngcobo, Nolwazi Zamisa, Mxolisi Phungula and another victim, who has yet to be identified, were all killed. Mbele said the sixth person survived the shooting and is in hospital in a serious condition. Cele visited the area yesterday together with National Police Commissioner Khehla Sithole and KZN MEC for Community Safety and Liaison, Bheki Ntuli. Regarding the first incident, Cele called on communities to refrain from taking the law into their own hands. “No one has any form of right to take the law into their hands. Those people themselves have committed a crime, and they will be treated as such,” he said. Cele said the possible motive for the second shooting was not yet known. “It looks like it is pure crime,” said Cele, adding that KwaNdengezi was known for these kinds of crimes and killings “The fact that people were taken out of their car and shot, it’s a bizarre incident. We believe that this is not a question of alcohol, and the investigations will determine what happened,” said Cele. Zibuyile Mthembu said her brother Nkanyiso had been killed in the second shooting. “I am very hurt and I am finding it very hard to accept that my only brother is no more. My heart will find peace when the police arrest these heartless people. We hope that the person who survived will be able to tell us what happened because we are in the dark,” said an emotional Mthembu. Ricky Phungula said his family hoped the police would arrest those responsible for the murder of his nephew, Mxolisi. “It’s painful to get a call that your family member is no more. It’s even worse when you don’t get a clear idea about the reason for his death. We will pressure the police as we also need answers,” said Phungula. Cele promised the community and families that he would be returning to the area in two weeks to monitor the progress of the investigations. The Mercury