Durban - PROTESTS by artists on the N3 freeway last week took centre stage at Sunday’s media briefing by premier Sihle Zikalala, who said they were not oblivious to the challenges these artists faced. He was “more than willling” to engage with them about these challenges but felt they should not take the law into their own hands or disrupt the economy. “Let’s rather engage, so that we can find solutions where possible, within the constraints in which we find ourselves,” Zikalala said. The artists’ protest made headlines last week, as they blocked the N3 near Spaghetti Junction during the day, and brought traffic to a standstill. They called for President Cyril Ramaphosa to open the entertainment industry again to at least 70% capacity. Motorists had to watch as the artists performed on a makeshift stage during their protest. Police had to disperse the protesters by using force. The Daily News reported that the artists apologised, after some were arrested for the traffic disruption, for what happened and said they had wanted to highlight the financial challenges they faced. Zikalala said the national Department of Arts and Culture was already distributing funds to help artists. He also discussed the Covid-19 situation in the province. “Minister of Health Dr Zweli Mkhize said that the South African storm may be over now. As KwaZulu-Natal, it may be too early for us to celebrate the drop in infections reported,” Zikalala said. He said they were wary of a second wave that has hit countries such as China, the United States and Spain. The Premier reported that over the past few weeks, there had been 5 664 Covid-19 cases and 358 deaths in KZN. Of these deaths, 55% were from the eThekwini Municipality, followed by uMgungundlovu and King Cetshwayo districts with 11% of the KZN cases. There were 2 294 deaths in the province in total since the start of the lockdown in March. “There are 1 959 operational beds available for Covid-19 patients. Of the total beds, 86% were vacant. Only 15% of the allocated ICU beds in the public sector were occupied on September 5,” Zikalala said. Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu said they would continue using field hospitals for the next few months and would monitor the situation. She said they were wary of closing the hospitals without knowing how the virus would progress in the future Daily News