Durban - THE eThekwini Municipality has ordered an audit on all Covid-19 expenditure to determine the level of corruption perpetrated during the lockdown. During a media briefing on Tuesday, to mark mayor Mxolisi Kaunda’s first year in office, he said the city was concerned some officials had mismanaged the Covid-19 relief funds by inflating prices against Treasury regulations. “We will support all the work by our law enforcement agencies to uncover any wrongdoing and we want all those implicated in the report to face the full might of the law. We say this because we warned our officials against the squandering of Covid-19 relief funds,” said Kaunda. He said that since his appointment last year, more than 2000 title deeds had been issued to beneficiaries and upgrades had started at 65 informal settlements. Kaunda added R140million had been allocated for repairs relating to storm damage and to address infrastructure challenges that contributed to flooding in the city. He also said that in this short space of time, his administration had been able to stabilise the city and create a positive investment climate that contributed to large investors recommitting their investments in the city. The mayor said one of his key commitments when he took office was to create a platform to create jobs. “Last week, we launched the eThekwini Economic Council that brings together different stakeholders to unlock the economic potential of the city and create jobs.” Addressing water and electricity, Kaunda said the city had a turnaround plan to deal with issues from the community. “The city has procured generators for eight resistors in the north and south of Durban In areas where there is inadequate water infrastructure, the city has procured 30 water tanks - raising the number from 88 to 103. “The city has embarked on a programme of reviving electrical plants that have been out of service. This would improve the flexibility of the network and increase energy supply capacity for the municipality.” Speaking on Covid-19, Kaunda said the pandemic had impacted negatively on the economy and weakened the prospect of growth in the city. Last week, Statistics SA released data that the country’s gross domestic product shrank by 51% in the second quarter of the year. He said with the easing of the lockdown levels, projects like the Clairwood Logistics Park and Durban Film City, which were halted, could resume. On tourism, Kaunda said there was a decline of R300million in direct spend and R600m in contribution to the GDP that was lost. He said major events, like the Vodacom Durban July, the Comrades Marathon, Africa’s Travel Indaba, and rugby and football events, saw a loss of revenue generation potential of more than R4.7billion. POST