Durban - A NEWCASTLE father who was killed while fighting off a robber has been hailed a hero. Siraj Bhula, 33, was shot in the chest as he tried to push a robber out of his family grocery and hardware store in Utrecht on Friday. Bhula, an Indian national, had been living in South Africa for the past nine years. Mohamed Shaheed Koli, his father-in-law and the store owner, said the premises were divided into a grocery and hardware store. “Siraj was at the cash register for the hardware section and my son Huzaisah, 25, was at the cash register for the grocery section. Just after 4.30pm two armed men entered and demanded money,” said Koli, who is also an Indian national. He said both Bhula and Huzaisah handed over whatever was in their cash registers. “All of a sudden, the suspect standing near Huzaisah fired a shot. When Siraj heard the gunfire he ran to help Huzaisah and the other suspect tried to stop him.” In a 19-second video clip of the CCTV footage, the suspect is seen trying to grab Bhula, a father of three, by the arm. Bhula then turns towards the suspect and jumps before kicking the suspect in the stomach. The suspect stumbles and then points his firearm at Bhula, who is not deterred. Bhula punches the suspect three times and each time the suspect stumbles backward and eventually out of the store. Koli said as the suspect was fleeing, he shot Bhula in the chest. “We are all devastated by his death. “He put up a brave fight to protect us. Siraj did not want to see anyone get hurt. He is a hero. He sacrificed himself for us.” He said Huzaisah was not injured. Bhula was married to Shamina, 28, and they had three children aged 8, 6 and 4. “My daughter and grandchildren are still in shock. No matter where you go in the world you are not safe. Crime happens in every country. I was robbed about 13 years ago. We just have to be on our guard. Now we are relying on the strength from God to help us deal with Siraj’s death. He was a gentleman and friendly to everyone he met.” Koli said the store was still open and that they have not hired additional security. Bhula was buried at the Newcastle Cemetery on Friday. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said charges of murder and robbery were opened at the Utrecht police station for investigation. “The shop owner fought back and was fatally shot by a suspect. The matter is still under investigation.” POST