THANDEKA MGQIBI Durban - SIMPLE, humble, selfless and compassionate were the words used to describe Professor Indrasen Moodley who died late last month at the age of 75. He was the brother of the late lawyer, Monty Moodley of Isipingo, and a student at Salisbury Island. Sam Moodley, his cousin, said: “He had been ill. However, he recovered over time and seemed quite healthy. We didn’t expect to lose him.” She said Moodley was selfless and had contributed to the academic life of students. Harri Narismulu, a friend, collaborated with Moodley to set up the first private hospital in Maputo. “He was a student at Salisbury Island and rose to become a lecturer in the science faculty which covered pharmacy and science programmes. “In the so-called Essop Trial (June to November 1972) Indres, who was then 27, alongside Mohammed Salim Essop, Amina Desai and Yusuf Hassem Essack were indicted under the Terrorism Act and on three alternative charges under the Suppression of Communism Act. “He was represented by advocate Ismail Mohamed (later Judge-President of the Constitutional Court). “Indres was sentenced to five years. He appealed against his conviction and sentence. His appeal was upheld by the Appellate Division in Bloemfontein on September 28, 1973. “Indres went to London where he pursued a Master’s and a doctorate at University College London. He returned in the early 1990s to become chair and head of the department of pharmacy and pharmacology at Wits Medical School for five years. “Thereafter, he became the director of health economics at the Pharmacia Corporation, South Africa.” Narismulu said in the early 2000s, Moodley joined the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Medical School as professor of public health as well as the director of the health outcomes research unit in the Department of Public Health at the Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine at UKZN. He said Moodley was, among others, involved in education and training; research and development and consulting to the public and private sectors. “Indres was well known both nationally and internationally for his contributions to clinical, scientific and health-related research. He served on statutory bodies such as the South African Pharmacy Council and the Minister of Health’s Pharmaceutical Pricing Committee.” Narismulu added that Moodley was appointed to the Board of the Medical Research Council and had worked in collaboration with a number of research centres such as the health economics unit at UCT and the Africa Centre. “He worked in consultation with the departments of health, trade and industry, as well as science and technology where he was involved in fostering the biomedical collaboration of traditional, Chinese and Ayurvedic health systems and practitioners with the allopathic health systems. “Indres was awarded a number of national and provincial projects in the public healthcare sector. He consulted widely to pharmaceutical companies and related institutions.” Thumba Pillay, a political activist and retired judge, said Moodley was simple, humble and compassionate. “His soft nature and warmth will always be remembered. He fought for the greater good of humanity and contributed greatly to the liberation struggle. “He was cut from the same cloth as his late brother, Monty Moodley, who was a human rights attorney.” Moodley’s funeral was held at the Clare Estate Crematorium last Tuesday. He is survived by his son and two grandchildren, who are all based in London. POST