Durban - THE South African Hindu Dharma Sabha has taken two Chatsworth pastors to the Equality Court for hate speech against Hinduism. The organisation is also claiming R1million in damages. In June, Simeon Bradley Chetty, a self-appointed evangelist, posted a video on Facebook testifying about his conversion from Hinduism to Christianity. Chetty said: “My father was a Telugu, my mother was a Tamil and while they were growing up they said, you know what? They have no meaning, they worship idols, they worship other gods, but I am here to tell you that the name of Jesus is above every other name. “Let me ask you this question. Why would a Telugu man worship Jesus? Why would a Muslim man worship Jesus? Why would every religion give their life to Jesus?” Chetty has since apologised to the Hindu community via Facebook. Two weeks later, a 16-second clip of Reverend Llewellyn Joseph from February resurfaced on Facebook, where Joseph is heard praying for a congregation of worshippers. During his prayer, he calls out for a congregation member who feels a sense of heaviness on his or her home and family when Kavady is being observed. Joseph said: “The fear that the curse of those spirits (is) working in and throughout the home and every time when it comes that Kavady time, the previous time, you just feel the heaviness come upon your family and your home. Is that person here? I want to pray with that person (Sic).” Joseph had also apologised. After the clips emerged, Ram Maharaj, of the South African Hindu Dharma Sabha, opened a case of crimen injuria against the pastors at the Chatsworth SAPS. The matter is under investigation. In his founding affidavit which was filed last week, Maharaj described Chetty and Joseph’s statements as offensive, objectionable, insulting, hurtful, humiliating, blasphemous, discriminatory, and prejudicial. He said the comments advocated the superiority of religion. “The impugned statements are declared to be hurtful, harmful, inciting harm, and propagating hatred and amount to hate speech.” In his affidavit, Maharaj has asked the court to ensure that the pastors will not in the future engage in similar conduct towards any other person or persons based on their race or religion. “Furthermore, they must issue a public request to all fellow Christians not to denigrate Hinduism or Hindus in any way. This request shall be communicated via social media, newspapers and radio stations. The request must also be sent in writing to all church organisations as the Association of Christian Media as an efficient and effective educational exercise to promote inter-religious harmony.” Maharaj further said the pastors should also complete 200 hours of community service at the Aryan Benevolent Home in Chatsworth over a period of six months. Maharaj also asked the court to restrain the pastors from insulting, harassing, propagating hate and degrading the Hindu community. He said that the money would be used for the promotion of non-racism, tolerance, reconciliation, socio- economic upliftment, and humanitarian projects in South Africa. The pastors have 10 days to file their responding affidavits. When approached for comment ,Joseph and Chetty referred POST to their lawyer, Siven Samuel. He had not commented by the time of publication. POST