Durban – The Aryan Benevolent Home (ABH) in Chatsworth has lost nine people to the deadly Covid-19 virus out of the 24 who tested positive. In a statement on Tuesday, the home, which cares for 700 people including children, victims of domestic violence, the non-ambulant and the elderly, said the pandemic had been an incredibly challenging time for them, especially for their elderly residents who are more susceptible to the virus. The home, that sought to distance itself from the  Aryan Benevolent Society Home in Pietermaritzburg – which has dealt with its own outbreak of Covid-19 – said that strict protocols had been put in place to contain the virus from spreading within the Chatsworth home. In a statement, it said one of their protocols included the implementation of a no visitors policy for all its facilities three weeks prior to the announcement of the lockdown. “Subsequent to the announcement of the lockdown, our home strengthened our protocols and continues to remain vigilant. Our protocols included providing staff with training by accredited professionals, staff were given personal protective equipment (PPE) and in addition, we provided hand sanitisers and masks for staff to use at home,” the statement from the home said. He said the precautions helped limit both the risk of cross-infection and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Despite the protocols, precautions and vigilance, from late July to date, a total of 20 staff members have tested positive for Covid-19. Staff members were immediately self-quarantined in their homes. As of 27 August 2020, 9 staff members reported back to duty with negative results,” the statement said. At the beginning of August, the Department of Health screened the patients at the home and to date, 24 had tested positive.. “Nine residents sadly passed away whilst hospitalised. We extend our deepest condolences to the residents’ families and our thoughts and prayers are with them during this difficult time. 14 residents have fully recovered and 1 resident is currently hospitalised”. A place has been set aside within the ABH for the isolation of infected residents. All residents are closely monitored by our nurses and doctor. “We haven’t had any positive Covid-19 cases at the ABH since 14 August 2020,” the home added. The ABH said that it wanted to clear up the confusion between its home in Chatsworth and the Aryan Benevolent Society Home in Pietermaritzburg. “Despite sharing a very similar name, the Aryan Benevolent Society Home in Pietermaritzburg bears no relation to the Aryan Benevolent Home Council (ABH) headquartered at Arena Park, Chatsworth.  We at the Aryan Benevolent Home Council (ABH) have no affiliation, relationship or association with the Aryan Benevolent Society Home based in Pietermaritzburg,” the home said. Daily News