Durban - The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) shut down the Clicks store in the Durban city centre on Monday after scores of EFF members stayed true to their threat of disrupting the health and beauty chain store’s operation this week. This after an advert for a hair product went on the company’s website on Friday disparaged the hair of Black African women and “dry and damaged“ in comparison to white women’s hair which was said to be ”fine, flat and normal”. Clicks removed the offending advert and apologised for its calling it insensitive and offensive. A junior employee was also suspended. The EFF however vowed to hit Clicks where it hurt the most and vowed to shut down all 880 of its stores. Vusi Khoza, EFF leader in KZN said they had managed to close the Clicks store in the Durban city centre. He vowed that they will be at the store until the 12th of September to ensure that no trading takes place. “We have made sure that whoever was inside, the customers are able to leave but no one is going in,”  he told EWN. “This store is now closed. We achieved out mission. We are going to be here everyday until the 12th because we are not going to allow  somebody to come and insult out women and say that natural black hair is dry, is dirty and and compare that with some white blonde hair and tell us that this is natural hair, this is fine.. it is the biggest form of insult. We are not  going to allow anybody to insult us in our country. That is why  we are going to close Clicks down. We have engaged them. We gave them 24 hours to respond, they did not.  We have decided to close them,” he said. Khoza said that the EFF was in every town and mall in KZN and will ensure that no Clicks store operates. Raz Ali, founder of BOSS-UIP  who is the security contractor for Clicks in the city centre said they were able to get all the customers and staff out of the store safely before securing the premises while the EFF protested outside. He said that they will be at the store to ensure that it is protected. Vikesh Ramsunder, Clicks Group CEO in a statement said he was deeply disappointed that they allowed insensitive and offensive images to be published on their website. “ I apologise unreservedly for the hurt and anger these images have caused,” he said. “...As a company, we cannot change what happened, but we are learning from this. We are committed to effecting real, systemic change across our business that reflects our pride in being a truly South African company. We have done a lot in terms of transformation. This issue has clearly highlighted that we have a lot more to do. We appeal to all stakeholders to engage with us so that we redress actions to demonstrate our commitment to diversity and inclusion,“ part of his statement said. Daily News 