Durban - A PRIMARY school teacher and an alleged hit man are expected to appear in the Weenen Magistrate’s Court this week, charged with the murder of a Winterton teacher. Hlengiwe Ndaba’s charred body was found in a bakkie that was riddled with bullet holes on July 23. Ndaba, a Grade 4 teacher at Phasiwe Primary School, had been eight months’pregnant when she died. A 37-year-old female teacher, who taught at the same school as Ndaba, is set to appear in court on Thursday in connection with the matter, while a 46-year-old man, thought to have committed the gruesome murder, is expected to appear today. Ndaba’s sister, Xolile, said the family were shocked to learn that a colleague had been arrested – and more especially shocked that it was a woman. “She worked with her and she knew she was pregnant. She knew she had little power to fight back. We had thought a man would have been arrested and that maybe they had tried to hijack m sister – we never thought it would be a woman she knew,” she said. Xolile said her sister was a quiet person who had no enemies. “We want to know the reason they did this. We want to hear from her: what it is that my sister owed? Was it not something we could help pay back? Was it something that much that her life had to be taken so brutally, to be torched? They killed two people; my sister would have given birth towards the end of this month,” she said. Xolile said her sister had been working at the primary school since 2007, and had two children aged 11 and 2. “We want justice for what they have done; they should be handed life sentences,” she said. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said the man accused in the murder of Ndaba was arrested last Thursday in the Emmaus area. His arrest came after the teacher’s arrest. “She was arrested in Estcourt. She appeared before the Weenen Magistrate’s Court on September 4 and was remanded until September 10.” Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula welcomed the arrest of the suspects. “It is disturbing to learn that a woman is involved in the killing of another. We are convinced that detectives will present a water-tight docket at court to secure convictions for the loss of innocent lives,” he said Daily News