Durban - FOURTEEN neighbourhood watch groups went on patrol this week and were on full alert after a fatal home invasion on Tuesday morning. Tuesday’s incident in Westville came just weeks after a home owner in the suburb shot dead two robbers and critically injured one, while a fourth escaped. Westville Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Asad Patel said he hoped to get more resources for the community after his meeting with various law enforcement agencies following the latest incidents. “We are on full alert; there’s no time to rest. We as the CPF are devastated by the sad news of the death of one of our residents this morning in a house robbery. The Westville community extend our condolences to the family and pray they are granted strength and patience to bear the loss.” Patel said crime had been escalating in Westville over the past few months and that this had been accompanied by a decrease in police activity in the area. “This has emboldened criminals and we have experienced three major criminal incidents.” These were yesterday’s house robbery and murder on Rodger Sishi Road, a business robbery and the theft of a motor vehicle. He said his area included more than 1 000 homes between Westwood Mall and Westville Boys’ High School. In February, the Daily News quoted Patel warning of an increase in armed robberies, break-ins at houses and home invasions. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said no arrests had been made yet in connection with yesterday morning’s incident and police were investigating charges of murder, attempted murder and robbery. Describing the incident, she said a woman opened her front door to let the dogs out at 5.30am and was confronted by two men wearing balaclavas. “They forced themselves into the house and a confrontation between the suspects and the family ensued. A 53-year-old father was stabbed in the chest and his 18-year-old son was stabbed in the right thigh. The suspects took a cellphone and a wallet and fled. The father later succumbed to his injuries in hospital,” said Gwala. Red Line Response advanced life support paramedic Garrith Jamieson said they responded to the call just after 5am, and on arrival found three people who had sustained various injuries. “Paramedics worked to stabilise them at the scene and rushed them through to the nearest hospital for the medical attention they required. The man was stabilised on the scene before he went into cardiac arrest. Despite paramedics’ and doctors’ attempts, the patient succumbed to his injuries,” he said. The other two occupants of the house sustained moderate injuries. Daily News