Durban - WHILE the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) deliberates on security-related tenders, two of its buildings have been stripped of copper and metal in Durban. The recently constructed Durban resignalling site office, which had not yet been occupied, and the adjacent Rossburgh Perway welding depot, on Sarnia Road, were vandalised. On the premises, lengths of cable were found stripped of copper. Scaffolding, steel foundation grids, metal drainage grates, boxes of tiles, and other items of value were also stolen. Underground cables, leading to the railway lines, were cut and removed for copper. The upper floor of the office was empty. Durban Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said many of the stolen items were found at scrap yards in the vicinity. Police then traced the source and found both abandoned buildings. The depot technical supervisor’s office, toilets, workshop and locker room were stripped of copper and metal. According to the Durban Metrorail network website, the building was earmarked for the consolidation of the control of the entire rail network, in the Durban area, into one centralised traffic control centre (CTC). The South African Government News Agency stated that Prasa awarded Bombardier Africa Alliance the KwaZulu-Natal new signalling contract in March 2013. The contract was worth about R1.865 billion. The Bombardier Interflo 200 rail control solution to Prasa, was set for commissioning in 2017. The contract also includes the design, construction and installation of the new railway signalling system, and the associated civil, Perway, electrical and telecommunication works for the Durban region. Prasa KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson Zama Nomnganga said he was awaiting a full report from the engineers before commenting. In December 2019, Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula dissolved the Prasa interim board and placed the entity under administration for 12 months. In June 2020, Prasa dismissed four senior officials in its protection services department. They were found guilty of procurement irregularities in the awarding of security-related tenders. Prasa announced in July 2020 that it has started a recruitment process to employ 3 100 security guards to protect its rail infrastructure and other assets. Prasa administrator Bongisizwe Mpondo said insourcing the security function will better secure the agency’s infrastructure, while creating muchneeded jobs. The new recruits will also focus on general crime prevention. “We have a responsibility to do all we can to protect the public infrastructure, as acts of vandalism and theft become worse,” Mpondo said. Daily News