MBUYISELO NDLOVU Durban - POLICE have made a further breakthrough in the murder of Warrant Officer Theena Pillay. Pillay, 48, was shot and killed outside his mother-in-law’s home in Woodview, Phoenix, last December. He had dropped off his daughter, Minisha Pillay, 20, at the home and, as he was leaving for work at the Phoenix police station, two suspects in a white Toyota Etios shot at him. He managed to return fire before succumbing to his injuries. A suspect, Lindani Ncanana, was also killed but his accomplices fled the scene. It was believed Pillay was targeted because of his investigations into the drug trade in Phoenix. In April, a suspect linked to the killing, Mvuselelo Nkululeko Dludla, was arrested in Phoenix by members of the Durban Serious Organised Crime Unit. He was later released. Last Tuesday, after receiving information, the unit apprehended two men in nearby Bester. Mbhekiseni Ncanana and Thobani Ngema were arrested by Captain Mukesh Panday, Warrant Officer Deena Govender, Warrant Officer Shane Naidoo and a member from the Metro Dog Unit. They appeared in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Thursday, charged with murder. The case was adjourned to later this week. Pillay’s wife Sharon said her husband was determined to stop the drug trade in Phoenix. “He worked on his cases with so much of passion,” she said. “Theena saw what drugs were doing to the youth in the community and having young children himself, he fought against the spread. He often told the kids and me that being a policeman was his life and that he could go out the door and not return.” She said she never thought he would be killed in the line of duty. “I feel like we are stuck in a nightmare. Our daughter saw what happened to him. She can no longer go to her grandmother’s house because of it. The incident is still fresh in our minds.” With the recent arrests, she said it felt they were closer to getting justice. “We have left the case to the police while we heal. Theena was everything to us. He was my high school sweetheart. We attended Mount Edgecombe Secondary School and he always spoke about wanting to be a policeman. He served the police force for 28 years. He wanted to make a difference and help people in need.” They would have celebrated their 23rd wedding anniversary last month. On Sunday, Pillay was honoured at the annual SAPS Commemoration Day at the Chatsworth Police Academy. He was among six policemen – Malusi Mahlangu, Nkanyiso Biyela, Malusi Sibisi, Sakhile Nsibande and RM Makhathini – who were killed in the line of duty. Sharon attended with Minisha and her sons Shivaran, 19, and Theenan, 16. “We felt proud that he was being honoured for his bravery.” Bheki Ntuli, the MEC for Transport, Community Safety, and Liaison, said: “We must continue to honour our fallen heroes because these brave men and women in blue died in the line of duty whilst protecting others. “No police officer must die in the hands of criminals. Losing such experienced police officers is painful and unacceptable. The killing of police needs to stop. This act of criminality needs to be confronted by all of us because it is a direct attack on the state and the rule of law.” He made a call to police to reject bribes. “By doing so, you are demonstrating that you have a high level of integrity and professionalism. Say no when you are asked to make dockets disappear, and by doing so, you are ensuring that justice is served. Combating fraud and corruption within the ranks, and rooting out criminal and corrupt elements from within the service will assist in regaining public trust.” POST