OPINION - WE ARE in the period where Hindus across the world pay homage to their ancestors. Pitr Paksha (fortnight of the ancestors) is based on the premise that we are who we are today as a result of the contributions and sacrifices of our ancestors. The belief in ancestors is also part of African culture. No person exists in isolation but is part of a lineage. In our part of the world, this is expressed in the Zulu saying: umuntu ngumuntu ngabantu, (a person is a person through other people). Those other people include the ancestors who are regarded as being forever alive. They are given thanks in good times and their counsel is sought when times are bad. It was, therefore, unfortunate that the character of a dead man was brought into question during a period many regarded as being auspicious for the ancestors. The person in question was Serge Mokonyane who died in April last year. He distinguished himself during the Struggle and after liberation became a businessman. By all accounts, he was a family-oriented man. He married Nomvula, who went on to become the premier of Gauteng and, later, a Cabinet minister. However, she no longer serves in the government. Last year, President Cyril Ramaphosa did not invite her to serve in his executive. But she remains a member of the ANC’s national executive committee. According to media reports, Mokonyane recently led a charge against Ramaphosa at an ANC NEC meeting. She wanted him removed as leader of the party because he had insinuated that all ANC members were criminals. Ramaphosa survived but Mokonyane’s future is uncertain after her recent appearance at the Zondo Commission. She testified in order to refute allegations that she was on the take from Bosasa, among others. This is the company that provided prison services to the government. According to evidence before the commission, Bosasa paid for Mokonyane’s 40th birthday bash. She played ignorant, which left Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo questioning how neither she knew nor her husband had known who paid for such a big party. Mokonyane also claimed she was oblivious to security upgrades Bosasa allegedly undertook at her private home, because her husband handled matters involving their house. On her 50th birthday, and while Mokonyane was premier of Gauteng, she was given an Aston Martin valued at around R3 million by her husband. According to Mokonyane, her late husband made a deal with a few friends. They paid a R2.2m deposit for the car. In return, they were supposed to be roped into a lucrative Eskom deal. Serge Mokonyane could not defend himself but his wife’s evidence did not portray either of them in a favourable light. It can be reasonably inferred that either he was corrupt or his wife used him to mask her own questionable decisions. Either way, it was a mark on the name of a couple who were once held in high regard. Mokonyane’s testimony highlighted the extent of the greed and the audaciousness of those involved. It includes politicians as well as those in the private sector. Despite her shortcomings, at the end of her testimony, Zondo thanked Mokonyane. Her ancestors, though, might be a lot less forgiving. POST