Durban - THE next two months will be critical for Tansnat as bus drivers expect to see results now that they have returned to work after their week-long strike. By Tuesday, all drivers who had downed tools had returned to work after a meeting with owner Mandla Gcaba and a few managers on Sunday. Chief operating officer Vickesh Maharaj said a resolution had been reached for the drivers to return and discussions were under way regarding their requests. One of the drivers said on Saturday that buses were operating again and were being driven by inspectors and drivers who had also been protesting. He said Gcaba was willing to fix issues with the drivers, had removed troublesome inspectors and wanted to review the cases of the drivers who had been fired earlier this year. He said the drivers decided on a plan B and wrote a letter of concerns to the Gcaba brothers about the threats, low salaries and embarking on a strike. “Gcaba said they’ll agree to everything. “He said he would put in some money, even if it does not reach the R21000 to R26000 we asked for, and he signed,” said the driver. The driver said when they met Gcaba on Sunday, he said he had six months left until he left. “He told us he wanted to fix things before the buses returned to the municipality – issues with salaries and positions. He suggested we create three committees – one that will deal with the problems and a way forward, a second one to deal with the entity and attend meetings with the municipality and Tansnat and a third that would deal with provident fund issues and insufficient payouts when one retires,” the driver said. He said drivers left satisfied after their engagement with Gcaba as they felt things were moving in a positive direction. “We’re very hopeful. Two months from now, we’ll see how things are going and hopefully we’ll start to see results.” He said on Friday, Tansnat management, unions and bus driver representatives were supposed to meet eThekwini mayor Mxolisi Kaunda but the city manager attended the meeting instead. Daily News