Durban - KwaZulu-Natal’s troubled municipalities will remain under administration until next year because they have not shown signs of improving. KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta), Sipho Hlomuka, told members of the National Council of Provinces (NCoP) that these municipalities would remain under administration until next March. He said he was hopeful that the seasoned administrators, deployed to the various councils, would work around the clock to bring them back to life. Nine of the province’s 54 municipalities were placed under administration due to the total collapse of service delivery. Emadlangeni (Utrecht) Municipality in northern KZN was the latest on the list after it was placed under administration this week. The others are Mtubatuba, Abaqulusi (Vryheid), uMzinyathi district (including Dundee), uThukela district (including Ladysmith), Inkosi Langalibalele (Estcourt), Mpofana (Mooi River), Richmond and Msunduzi. Hlomuka said the interventions, except at Emadlangeni, had been retained until March 31, 2021, due to insufficient progress in addressing their governance, financial management and service delivery-related challenges that had led to their interventions in the first place. “I can assure the NCoP that suitably qualified ministerial representatives have been appointed in all nine intervention municipalities and they have all signed performance agreements which are aligned to their terms of reference. “The administrators provide monthly progress reports based on their performance indicators and performance agreements, which are monitored by KZN Cogta,” said Hlomuka. He said all the ministerial representatives had been given strict instructions to ensure that these municipalities were turned around by March 31, next year, although, ideally, the turn-around should be achieved prior to this date. Hlomuka said his department had also been directed by the KZN Premier, Sihle Zikalala, to undertake a skills audit of all municipalities to identify any skills gap and start the training of officials. Sabelo Gwala, provincial manager for the South African Local Government Association, said its committee had found that administrators were not targeting the issues raised by the auditor-general (A-G). “We believe that there should be closer alignment between what they do and the issues raised by the A-G,” Gwala said. Meanwhile, the seventh South African Citizen Satisfaction Index (SA-csi) conducted by Consulta shows citizen satisfaction and trust in their local municipality remained extremely low, with none of the major metros managing to meet their residents’ expectations of service delivery. The survey measured citizen satisfaction and trust in service delivery in Buffalo City, Cape Town, Ekurhuleni, eThekwini, Johannesburg, Mangaung, Nelson Mandela Bay and Tshwane. The total sample size was 2427 random interviewees across the metros. Of those polled, Cape Town emerged as the best performing metro on the overall citizen satisfaction for “Large Metros” recording the highest score for the seventh consecutive year. Cape Town recorded a score of 66 out of a possible 100 which was more than 10 points above the par score of 55.7 for all municipalities. Ekurhuleni followed with a score of 58.4 while eThekwini and Tshwane were on par with scores of 57.2 and 53.6, respectively. The survey found that while citizen expectations were increasing, service quality was declining. “The significant gaps in expectations versus the perceived quality of service delivery that citizens experience is a telling indicator that there is a pressing need for metros in terms of introspection, finding collaborative initiatives to review service delivery failures and to work consistently to turn the downward trend in the index to improve overall service delivery standards,” said Ineke Prinsloo, head of customer insights at Consulta. The Mercury