Durban - A POLICE officer in KwaZulu-Natal was killed in the line of duty days before the annual SAPS Commemoration Day. Last week, Sergeant Nokwanda Phakathi was shot dead in Nsuze, northern KwaZulu-Natal, while responding to a robbery. On Sunday, Police Minister Bheki Cele, Deputy Minister of Police Cassel Mathale, Deputy President David Mabuza, National Police Commissioner General Khehla Sitole and other dignitaries gathered on the lawns of the Union Buildings for the annual SAPS Commemoration Day, in remembrance of 40 police officers who lost their lives in the line of duty. The names of the officers were engraved on the National Memorial Wall and wreaths were laid in their honour. Because of the national lockdown, the day was also observed across the province by provincial police commissioners, MECs and others. Six of the 40 police officers were from KZN. They were killed between April 1, 2019, and March 31, 2020: Constable Nkanyiso Biyela (Sydenham SAPS), Sergeant Malusi Thokazi Sibisi (Ekombe SAPS), Sergeant Sakhile Nsibande (KwaMbonambi SAPS), Warrant Officer Theena Pillay (Phoenix), Warrant Officer RM Makhathini (Crime Intelligence) and Reservist Constable Malusi Mahlangu (Mariannhill SAPS). Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Bheki Ntuli appealed to the police to fight until the last bullet when facing dangerous and merciless criminals. “No police officer must die at the hands of criminals. The killing of police needs to stop,” he said. “This act of criminality needs to be confronted by all of us because it is a direct attack on the state and rule of law.” Ntuli said the department would activate all community structures and mobilise them to intensify its efforts in a bid to end police killings. He also said the department previously rolled out impactful campaigns such as Sekwanele (enough), which was aimed at galvanising the community against the scourge of police killings. Through these interventions and other programmes such as the One Million Signatures Campaign Against Police Killings, reported incidents of police killings subsided. At the Union Buildings, Cele said the killing of police officers was why he continued to be vocal on the call that says “any attack on a police officer is a direct attack on the authority of the state and should be regarded as treason”. Cele also said the officers’ deaths should not be in vain. “Instead, their deaths should be a reminder of the importance of community policing partnerships and the need for all of us to be active in the fight against crime.” Mabuza said it remained a serious concern that police officers were killed by suspects resisting arrest. Last week, the Hawks arrested two suspects in connection with the murder of Warrant Officer Theena Pillay (Phoenix SAPS) in December 2019. A third suspect was shot dead by Pillay during a shoot-out with the suspects Daily News