Durban - A 49-YEAR-OLD man is expected to appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Monday for allegedly trying to murder his wife. It is alleged the husband had drawn a firearm and fired towards his wife during an argument at their Musgrave home on September 21. The wife fled the house and opened a case of attempted murder at Mayville police station. On Saturday, police went to the couple’s home looking for the man. He was found in possession of a shotgun, a revolver and a pistol and a number of rounds of ammunition. He was arrested. He was charged with attempted murder and illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. In a separate case, four men are expected to appear in the court today after they were arrested in an intelligence-driven operation to root out illegal firearms. The operation in search of illegal firearms, conducted by the Public Order Police and the Taxi Task Team, led to the arrest of four men and the recovery of three firearms as well as 53 rounds of ammunition in Ntambanana in Empangeni. Three men aged between 32 and 43 were arrested. One of them is also held in connection with a case of attempted murder. It is alleged that he fired at the police at his home in Emgxanyini Reserve with his licensed firearm. He was arrested and the firearm seized. The police then proceeded to Bhucananna where a 31-year-old man was arrested for illegal possession of a firearm. Police spokesperson Thembeka Mbele said the man was found with a pistol loaded with eight rounds of ammunition. Another man, aged 32, was arrested in possession of 10 rounds of ammunition at his home in Ndodwane Reserve. At the Maceke Reserve, also within the Empangeni area, a 46-year-old man was arrested for illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. Mbele said the man was found with a pistol and 13 rounds of ammunition. “All four men are in custody awaiting their court appearances in the Ngwelezane Magistrate’s Court today. Acting Provincial Commissioner Major General Thulani Gonya applauded the police for the arrests. He reminded the public to take advantage of the second chance to hand over illegal firearms during the current firearm amnesty that ends on January 31. Daily News