Durban – A CHATSWORTH family believes justice has been served after the man who drove over and killed their mother and wife was yesterday sentenced to 15 years’ imprisonment. Rayen Chetty, 27, was in a relationship with Raheesa Sheik and had gone to the family’s home in Woodhurst in August 2017 to discuss an argument they had had the night before. While there, another argument broke out. Chetty had testified he got into his car but relatives had blocked his way and he could not drive forward. As a result, he reversed. At that time, Salma Sheik, 43, Raheesa’s mum, and her husband, Afzal Sheik, 48, were standing at the side and the back of the vehicle. When Chetty reversed, Salma was knocked over and he drove over her body multiple times. The vehicle then hit a neighbour’s wall and came to a stop. Salma died at the scene. Afzal was injured. Chetty was convicted last month. Durban Regional Court Magistrate Sophie Reddy sentenced Chetty to 15 years for murder and 10 years for attempted murder. Both sentences will run concurrently. Salma’s sister, Karima Abdul, told the Daily News yesterday what the couple’s argument was about. She said Raheesa had received a call from her aunt while in Chetty’s company and he thought it was from another man. Reddy said the sentence reflected the particular circumstances of Chetty, the seriousness of the offence and the natural indignation of the public. “You committed these offences because you were inflamed by all- encompassing rage caused by your jealous suspicion. This terrifying rage stemming from your suspicions was then directed at the deceased because she tried to protect her daughter by attempting to prevent you from driving off with her,” Reddy said to Chetty. “You deliberately and determinedly drove over the deceased and then over her husband when he subsequently came to her rescue. You did so with a wanton disregard for the consequences. Clearly this arose because of your extreme jealous reaction. “The seriousness of both these charges cannot be overemphasised. They are not just prevalent but they are rising alarmingly within the jurisdiction of this court and our country. You are still a very young man. It is tragic that you have forced yourself to be in these circumstances when you should instead be looking forward to a bountiful and responsible, but care-free, future. The court accepts that as a result of the consequences of your actions you have suffered psychological trauma,” Reddy said. The magistrate said the court was required to send out a message that such violent incursions in society would not be tolerated. “The Sheik family have suffered grievously. The extent of their emotional trauma must be given due regard.” Daily News