Durban - WHILE THE EFF warned that it would close Clicks stores until Friday, the retailer said it had decided to close all branches on Wednesday. It also announced that it had removed TRESemmé products from its stores and announced plans to expand the range of local hair-care products. This comes after an advert for a hair-care campaign for TRESemmé, which appeared on the Clicks website last week, described natural black hair as “damaged” and white hair as “normal”. Clicks and TRESemmé South Africa apologised and the advert was taken down. But the advert sparked outrage and the EFF said Clicks was not remorseful. The party held protests at more than 400 Clicks stores on Monday, with 92 closed in KZN and the Eastern Cape, 51 in the Western Cape and more than 200 in Gauteng among other areas, while at least seven stores were damaged. Protests were also held yesterday, including in Ballito and Gateway shopping centre in uMhlanga. Clicks said it would use today to engage directly with store staff across the country, and provide counselling and support. It said stores would reopen tomorrow as it had secured an interdict from the Johannesburg High Court yesterday, which prevented the EFF from intimidating and threatening employees and customers and inciting violence. “Clicks had no choice but to approach the courts, as protecting staff and customers remains the number one priority. The closure means Clicks will be unable to provide medication to customers, along with public sector medicine pick-up points being temporarily unavailable.” It said the cost of the vandalism and looting was still being determined and it was considering the remedies available to it. The retailer said the employees responsible for publishing the advertisement had been suspended and it had accepted the resignation of the senior executive responsible. It also confirmed that it received a letter from the South African Human Rights Commission and would be responding to it. Regarding TRESemmé, it said it would be delisting and removing all the brand’s products from its stores with immediate effect and the range of locally-sourced hair-care brands, already in stores, would be expanded. EFF spokesperson Vuyani Pambo yesterday reiterated that protests were conducted in a peaceful and lawful manner. “We reject the infiltration of our protests by agents provocateurs who wish to tarnish the good name and reputation of the EFF. These elements will be identified, isolated and dealt with severely,” he said. Pambo said the high court had not declared the protest illegal and confirmed that protests would continue. Provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said officers in KZN monitored the protests and no incidents were reported. However, the EFF said a member was arrested yesterday during a protest at the Clicks store in Gateway. Mlebuka Hlengwa, eThekwini regional EFF chairperson, said the member was taken to Durban North police station. “We believe that police are victimising us because we believe that we are fighting for a noble cause. Also, we have not yet violated any rules or any laws because we have not vandalised anything.” National police spokesperson Athlenda Mathe said protests were relatively calm yesterday as opposed to Monday. She said in Monday’s incidents, malicious damage to property cases were registered in the Eastern Cape, Limpopo, North West and Mpumalanga and four people were arrested for illegally gathering in the Western Cape. Five people were arrested at a Clicks store in Alberton yesterday. TRESemmé referred The Mercury to its initial apology and declined to comment further. The Mercury