DURBAN – South Durban residents, business owners and environmental activists are planning to meet Engen refinery’s management this week to discuss their list of demands following an explosion at the plant recently. Durban South Community Environmental Alliance co-ordinator Desmond D'sa, said several organisations, including the Merebank Ratepayers Association, Wentworth Development Forum, Chatsworth Civic Organisation, Ubunye Bama eHostela, Abahlali baseMjondolo and groundWork had signed a memorandum of demands that was handed to Engen’s management on Friday. D’SA said the 29 residents, who lived in a block of flats where an apartment was gutted at the same time as the explosion on December 4, were relocated to guest houses being paid for by Engen. He said the residents would remain in the guest houses until Engen compensated them for their losses. An 11-year old girl, who was asleep in the flat when the fire started and sustained burn wounds to her hands, ears and face, was among those who were relocated. D’Sa said the community ideally wanted Engen to be shut down or relocated and for a community trust fund to be established to safely dismantle the refinery and ensure sustainable jobs. Among the list of demands handed to Engen was a request for access to the firm’s schedule trade permit and for access to its emission limits for key pollutants as well as its pollution reduction and climate change plans. “We demand that Engen undertake on-line BTEX (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene) emissions monitoring on the fence line and the data must be made publicly available. We demand Engen’s annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emission over the past 10 years and their GHG reduction plans, including public audit reports to show progress or none,” he said. D’Sa said residents also wanted to see Engen’s and eThekwini Municiality’s emergency disaster plans for the area. “In future we demand that these plans must include the inputs and participation from South Durban communities vulnerable to disasters,” D’Sa said. Engen had not responded to questions by the time of publication. The Mercury