Durban - At the end of each day, Dhanalatchmee Pillay places her hands on her eldest son’s head and offers a prayer. The great-grandmother then lies in bed until she falls asleep. “This has been her routine for a few years,” said her son, Dees, 76, of Orient Heights, Pietermaritzburg. On November 27, Pillay turned 100. But she still cannot believe her age. “She blushes and then tells friends and family that it’s not the truth,” said Dees. “My mother still has a good memory. She can talk for hours about her life and family. Even though she hasn’t seen her great-grandchildren for a while, she remembers each one by name.” Pillay has six children, 19 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren. She was raised in Overport, Durban. She lived in a rural part of the area and often planted fruit and vegetables. Dees said: “My mother never took me to a market to buy food. She planted everything. She grew onions, potatoes and even watermelons which were double the size of those you get today. She distributed some of the fresh produce to our neighbours and sold the rest. “I remember walking 10km to and from school every day and when I got home, the vegetables were wrapped in newspaper and ready for me to distribute door to door. She never bought me school uniforms. My mother sewed my shirts and pants, and knitted scarves. I used to sell the scarves, and with the money I bought bread and milk,” said Dees. After he got married, he moved to Pietermaritzburg. Six years ago, Pillay moved in with his family. “I am blessed to still have her in my life. She taught me to be God fearing and humble. My mother also taught me that I must pray. Now that she is living with me, we pray together. At night, she places her hands on my head and prays.” Pillay starts her day at 5am and later has a bowl of porridge. She enjoys basmati rice with tomato chutney or potato curry for lunch, and for supper another cup of porridge. Pillay celebrated her birthday last week at her home with her family and members of her church. The widow said: “I thank God that I got to see 100 and I pray that He continues to bless me and keep me as I am.” Dees said his mother often wanted to know about the Covid-19 infection rate. “When people visit or when the radio or TV is on, she hears them talk about the coronavirus, so she is always asking and trying to learn more about it.” The Post