Durban - A Phoenix couple who were killed in a car crash days before they could celebrated their 9th anniversary. Preshan Ramesh, 31, and his wife, Samantha, 28, were buried side by side at the Mount Edgecombe cemetery days before what would have been their 9th wedding anniversary. His sister, Leshna Nagayan, said the couple were returning home from the Durban CBD on December 5. "They were seated in the back seat of a VW Polo. Samantha's cousin was seated in the front passenger seat, and his friend was driving. From what we understand, the vehicle was in the vicinity of Smith (Anton Lembede) Street when another (vehicle) crashed into the back of the car." Nagayan said the VW Polo spun, throwing the couple out of the vehicle. "Preshan and Samantha sustained multiple injuries. Samantha died at the scene. Preshan was taken to the Addington Hospital and he was transferred to Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital because they apparently did not have ventilators available. Samantha's cousin injured his leg and the friend hurt her forehead." She said Preshan died on Thursday. Nagayan said the couple had two daughters, Chole, 8, and Ciara, 5. "Moments before we found out about the accident, Chole woke up crying for her mother. Her grandmother (Samantha's mom)  tried calling them but she could not get through. She then called the cousin and was told about the accident." Nagayan said the couple met while working together at the Shell Garage in Mount Edgecombe. "Preshan worked there for 13 years but he was recently laid off. Samantha was a housewife. They were inseparable and individually they were incredible people. They were respectful and helpful." She said they would have celebrated her 9-year wedding anniversary on December 31. "As adults, it's difficult to copy and it is harder for their kids." She said the couple's children were staying with their grandmother. Colonel Thembeka Mbele, a provincial police spokesperson,  said a case of culpable homicide was opened for investigation by Durban Central SAPS. The Post