Durban - Shivonne Kader almost fell over when she found out that she graduated and with a Dean’s merit for her BTech in surveying. The married mother of two, of Pietermaritzburg, said: “This is my greatest achievement yet. It makes the struggles and challenges worth it." She said her educational journey was not easy and she encountered many personal challenges. This included being diagnosed with a chronic auto-immune disorder. “So beating all these odds feels great.” Kader studied civil engineering at Durban University of Technology’s (DUT) Indumiso Campus in Edendale, Pietermaritzburg, from 2004 to 2005. She then did her internship at the surveyor general’s office In the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform in KZN for 18 months. In 2007, she was awarded a bursary provided she study surveying. She then transferred from civil engineering to pursue a national diploma in surveying at DUT’s Steve Biko Campus in Durban. “I enrolled for the first semester as there were no subjects for me to register for in the second semester because I was credited for civil engineering. I completed my studies in 2009 and graduated the following year.” She was offered a permanent job as a survey technician in the surveyor general’s office. In 2018, she decided to further her studies by enrolling for a BTech in surveying. The mother of two boys, aged 3 and 9, said juggling work, studies and parenting was not easy and she was grateful for the support of her husband and family. “My husband took on the responsibilities of cooking and seeing to the boys so that I could travel to Durban to attend my weekly evening classes. “My parents also helped with our children when I needed to prepare assignments and study for tests and exams.” She added that she almost deregistered last year after her mother suffered a stroke. But her family and friends did not allow her to give up. Kader, who still works in the surveyor general’s office, is in the cadastral data processing division. She hopes to pursue her Master’s in surveying and lecture. The Post