Durban - While South Africa has dropped out of the top 10 most spammed countries in the world rankings, there was still a massive increase in spam calls during the Covid-19 lockdown period according to a 2020 data insights report released by Truecaller. The data for the report was collected and aggregated anonymously from incoming and outgoing calls and messages during the period of January 1 to October 31, 2020. Truecaller, an app which identifies callers and blocks spam, said globally during the period they identified  31.3 billion spam calls, which is an increase of 18% compared to last year, and 13.8 billion spam SMSes. “Our report shows that spam communications are more than an annoying inconvenience,  criminal scams are defrauding citizens and subscribers of tens of billions every year.” Last year, South Africa was ranked 6th in the world but had dropped to 17th position in the global rankings this year. According to the report, in the past three years, the country has consistently been one of the most spammed in the world. While spam trends in the country dropped by 59% from March to April, there was a notable rise in spam calls during the Covid-19 lockdown. “From April to October (in South Africa), there has been a 191% increase in spam calls. This reflects a surprising global trend that emerged this year.” Truecaller said globally, it was noted that spam calls in October were 17% higher than pre-lockdown. The report said Covid-19 pandemic has directly and indirectly affected not only global economies and societies but spammer behaviour. Spam globally reached its lowest point in April when strict curfews and lockdowns were implemented worldwide. “From this point, reports of scammers taking advantage of the uncertainty around the pandemic emerged. “In May, spam calls started to pick up again and have been increasing on average by 9.7% per month.” It said the global volume of misinformation was staggering and that illicit communications were increasingly crossing borders. “This year’s trend, and the distribution of spam worldwide, shows that rather than mitigating spam, the pandemic only offered a brief respite to victims of scammers.” The data revealed that despite various countries re-entering lockdowns in the latter part of 2020, the global spam rates have not been affected negatively but rather spammers have adjusted to a Covid-19 world. The Mercury