Durban - THE second Covid-19 wave has been worse than the first for half of the countries that have experienced a resurgence of the virus. This is according to epidemiologist and infectious diseases specialist Professor Salim Abdool Karim, speaking at the 2020 Postgraduate Research and Innovation Symposium in Durban  yesterday. This follows an announcement by Health Minister Zweli Mkhize on Wednesday that South Africa had entered the second wave. Abdool Karim said about half of the 49 countries that had completed their first wave had a second surge, adding that for half of these countries, the second wave was worse than the first. “The worrying part is that the second wave in the Eastern Cape looks worse than the first wave. I’m hoping that won’t be the case for the rest of the country, but there are reasons to think that it won’t be as bad,” he said. With the expected travel surge to begin on December 16, due to schools, factories and big industries closing, Abdool Karim said the provinces with fewer numbers would start showing increases that would lead to a national second wave. He compared South Africa to a few European countries which had the same epidemic time frame. “You only need to look at Europe to know that things are bad. The second surge when it comes upon you is really devastating and we’re seeing it country after country,” he said. Abdool Karim said most of South Africa’s virus had come from Europe. He said Spain, Belgium and the UK all experienced their epidemics quickly, have all had small peaks and by now have all had their second peaks already. In terms of the global average, Abdool Karim said South Africa had expected that there would be 66 days from the end of the first surge to the start of the second. “We were lucky because that time frame was quite substantially longer, we were well over 100 days before we started our second surge,” he said. According to Abdool Karim, South Africa’s biggest risk was that we had become complacent. Another anticipated problem was that when SA does receive vaccines,  research indicates that only two out of three people would be willing to take the vaccine, he said. “Our big problem is even if there are vaccines, rich countries have bought them up even before they know whether they work.” He said 184 countries, including South Africa, have adopted a different approach by joining Covax, a pool buying mechanism to distribute vaccines equitably. Abdool Karim warned it would possibly take three years to vaccinate 58 million South Africans. “We need to vaccinate close to 40 million people to get to herd immunity, it’s going to take a long time to get to 40 million,” he said. The Mercury