Durban - The Public Servants Association (PSA) has threatened strike action that it says would disrupt government IT systems. The looming strike action is due to a wage dispute with the State Information Technology Agency (SITA). The PSA rejected SITA’s 0% salary increase, calling it an “insult” to employees who provided essential services during the Covid-19 lockdown. The trade union’s assistant general manager Reuben Maleka said at the peak of the pandemic their members ensured that SITA could provide vital IT services to all government departments, including the SAPS and the Department of Home Affairs. With the festive season approaching, the union said these departments would rely on SITA services for effective service delivery. “PSA warns that State departments are set to experience information technology (IT) interruptions as the possibility of strike action is mounting in the wake of SITA’s ‘offer’ of a 0%-salary increase for its employees,” said Maleka. Maleka added that the union and its members have been patient during the negotiation process and afforded SITA ample opportunity to present a reasonable salary offer. He said the PSA reject SITA’s reasoning that they were complying with Finance Minister Tito Mboweni’s instruction that no salary increases would be granted to government employees. He said SITA was not a government department and it was not entirely funded by the State. “It is therefore disturbing to note that the Minister of Finance could issue such a directive to an entity that is not fully funded by government,” said Maleka. Maleka said parties deadlocked on wage negotiations and a dispute has been referred to the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA). “The PSA urges SITA to urgently find a solution to prevent industrial action by its employees that will cause severe disruptions to government’s IT systems,” he said. The PSA had not informed the agency of the intention to strike. The matter was with the CCMA and the conciliation process was scheduled to take place on December 24. The desired outcome for SITA is for an amicable solution to be reached within this month. “SITA has had continuous engagement with the unions on a range of issues including this one. We still hope that an amicable solution will be found to avoid an undesirable situation to both parties,” said Luvuyo Keyise SITA’s Executive Caretaker. SITA leadership was approaching the threat of interruption to government IT services with sensitivity and giving it the utmost priority. According to SITA, procedural strike requirements in terms of the labour law stated that a legal strike may become an option after the conciliation process and only if an agreeable resolution is not found. Within any national or work emergency, SITA’s business continuity processes ensure that the SITA leadership proactively collaborates and engages with the relevant departments to ensure essential services continue; and that employees working on essential services, ensure continued service delivery. The Mercury