Durban - AN UNDISCLOSED number of eThekwini municipal employees have tested positive for Covid-19, forcing the city to shut down the KwaMuhle Museum and several of its libraries where the cases have been identified. It remains to be seen if the libraries will still be closed come the start of the school year next month. In a statement, the city said only that “it is in the interest to ensure safety of employees”, that the move had been taken. City spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said he was unable to elaborate further. But municipal labour unions confirmed it was due to several employees having been found to be infected with the coronavirus. Xolani Dube, the regional secretary of the South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu), said the union was aware of eight cases where employees had tested positive for Covid-19. Dube said it made sense to close the facilities. This would also protect other employees as well as the general public. Independent Municipal & Allied Trade Unions (Imatu)’s vice chairman of the Bargaining Council, Sipho Shinga, said the union was involved in an on-going consultation process with the municipality as well as its members in order to assess the impact of the closures as well as to formulate a way forward. “Employees who are not affected could be seconded to other areas of employment while the facilities are closed,” said Shinga. The exact number of employees infected could not be confirmed yesterday. The libraries that are closed inlcude  Craigieburn, Umkomaas, Umnini, Umbumbulu, Amanzimtoti, Austerville, Botanic Gardens Department Library and Inanda. “We will communicate in due course about the reopening of these facilities,” Mayisela said. In response to questions from The Mercury about the Covid-19 cases among municipal staff, spokesperson for the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health Ntokozo Maphisa said: "In accordance with the law, the Department does not confirm positive Covid-19 cases, as this is the sole preserve of the Minister of Health. “As a matter of principle, where a positive Covid-19 case has been identified, contact mapping and tracing is conducted, as well as the screening, testing, and quarantining of people who have come into contact with the affected individual(s), and the isolation of those who test positive. Where necessary and warranted by a formal risk assessment exercise, the affected section of a building may be temporarily closed in order to allow for decontamination." The Mercury