Durban -THE second wave of Covid-19 in KwaZulu-Natal is placing millions of lives at risk and raising fears about the holiday season as holidaymakers head for the province. Economic experts in the province have warned that countering the second wave with another round of stringent lockdown measures would be disastrous for the economy in the province, where almost half of the population is unemployed. The second wave, which was exacerbated by a recent matric Rage Festival, has upset the provincial government’s plans of ensuring that all hands are on deck to spur the province’s economic recovery. Economist Bonke Dumisa said he didn’t expect the government to impose stringent economic restrictions as had been done during the national hard lockdown, as that would result in disaster. “Whatever the government may do to deal with the infections hot spots, I doubt if that may involve interference with businesses. The absolute worst measures that may be imposed may be restricted access to popular beaches, restricted opening of night clubs and (restrictions at) other events or places that are considered Covid-19 ... super- spreaders. Hence, the impact on the South African economy is not expected to be any worse than it was already under level 1. The government may only use the same tactics as they did in Port Elizabeth last week,” said Dumisa. Durban may only not receive the additional revenue that had been expected from the hundreds of thousands of people who annually flocked to its beaches on specific dates like December 25 and 31, and January 1, he added. The latest figures from the provincial department of health  showed 1 576 new cases had been reported in two days this week, bringing the total number of cases to 134 184. There have been 10 more deaths, bringing the total number of fatalities to 3 423. Karim said Gauteng was tofollowing running into the second surge about a week to two weeks behind KZN. In an impassioned plea in the media, Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu pleaded with all citizens to avoid large gatherings, wear masks as frequently as possible, and maintain a distance of at least two metres from others. Epidemiologist Professor Salim Abdool Karim,  who gave  the keynote address yesterday at the Postgraduate Research & Innovation Symposium,  hosted by the UKZN’s College of Agriculture, Engineering and Science, said the second wave could see more provinces record an increase in cases. “We are now in a situation where we have rapidly growing cases in all four of our big provinces. We are now in the midst of our second wave. With the travel we are expecting on December 16, when factories and industries close, all of the provinces that have not seen increases will all start showing increases. This will be because people in KZN and Gauteng have got to go back to these (home) provinces and they’re going to take the virus with them and then we will see a national second wave,” he said. Karim said it had been hoped that with the relaxation of  restrictions people would act responsibly and observe  precautions but that had not happened. He said at level 3 of the lockdown cases began to peak at  about 14 000 cases per day. He the peak lasted for about 10 days, then case numbers began to decrease rapidly. During the period of low transmission the government was able to make the decision to open up the economy. “However, the more restrictions were relaxed the more people became complacent ... it was expected that cases would increase again. As cases increase we see pressure on hospitals, such as is the case in the Eastern Cape and on the Garden Route,” said Karim. He said it was just a matter of time before there was pressure on hospitals in other parts of the country. “The worrying part is that the second wave in the Eastern Cape looked worse than the first wave; I’m hoping that this won't be the case in other provinces. When it comes to admissions, we have an increase in diagnosis and we see slightly more women being infected than men, and the death rate is higher in men. More men than women die; this is a phenomenon that we see across the world. With our first wave none of the hospitals became overwhelmed,” he said. Karim said early action by the government saw South Africa avoid experiencing a peak in infections in April, as had been expected, until July. “The reason why we didn't have a rapidly growing number of cases was because we were sitting at home under lockdown. This epidemic is still with us; we didn't dodge any bullet, we just postponed the inevitable. As soon as we relaxed our restrictions the epidemic caught up with us.” He said the country’s second peak had been expected to be felt in the second week of January. Daily News 