Durban - A PHOENIX police detective, caught in a sting operation for corruption, was released on bail on Wednesday. Phoenix police station detective warrant officer Pathmanthan Moodley, 49, was freed on R1 000 bail in the Durban Regional Court by Magistrate P Naidoo. According to the charge sheet, he is accused of corruption in that on Monday at the Phoenix police station, Moodley allegedly directly and corruptly accepted and/or agreed and/or offered to accept gratification from the complainant whether for themselves or for the benefit of another person. Apparently, payment of R10 000 was to change hands, “to act in a manner that amounts to the abuse of authority and/or breach of trust and/or the violation of a legal duty or set of rules designed to achieve an unjustified result and/or that amounts to unauthorised or improper inducement to do or not to do anything”. Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI-HAWKS) spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo said Moodley was investigating a case of malicious damage to property and assault in Phoenix. The suspect -- who is now the complainant in this matter -- allegedly received a call from Moodley on Monday to meet and discuss the case. “The two allegedly met in Mount Edgecombe. The warrant officer allegedly requested a gratification of R10 000 to destroy a case docket.  The complainant allegedly paid him R5 000 and the balance was to be paid the following day,” Mhlongo said. The matter was then reported to the Hawks. “An undercover operation was swiftly conducted when the complainant was paying the balance at Phoenix police station. Police searched the office and found cash,” Mhlongo said. Defence lawyer Chris Gounden said Moodley had no previous convictions or pending cases. He had, however, four children and two grandchildren that he had to support and be with during the festive period. Gounden argued that the State’s case was weak and that the complainant had a vendetta because Moodley had charged him. He told the court the money was not found on his client but in an office shared with others. Gounden said the door to the office was also not locked. His client did not have money for bail, he said, because he gets paid at month-end and he had already done his Christmas shopping. With these submissions, Gounden asked the court to release Moodley on a warning. Prosecutor Nhlakanipho Mzulwini said the State did not oppose bail and that Moodley had allegedly collected R5 000 from the complainant on Monday. He said the facts of the case should not be taken lightly. “He is a police officer entrusted with upholding the law. What message will we be sending out to the public if a policeman charged with corruption is released on warning while other people who are not police officers are released on bail? If they cannot afford the amount they are kept in custody.  If Moodley cannot afford R5 000 bail he should remain in custody, ” Mzulwini said. The magistrate said Moodley was employed and should remain in custody if he could not afford bail. Gounden said his client could afford R500 and would adhere to any bail conditions set. The matter was adjourned until March for further investigations and for cellphone records to be obtained. Naidoo set bail at R1 000. Phoenix Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Umesh Singh said it was disappointing when a seasoned police officer was arrested for alleged corruption. “People put their trust in the hands of the police. We urge the community to report matters of this nature so that corrupt police officers are exposed. This has tarnished the image of the police station and that of the other dedicated police officers. Where does it stop or end?” Daily News