Durban - Jaipal Daniel Moodley, also referred to as JD, still worked at the age of 71. He owned a tavern and general store in the farming area of Cottonlands, north of Durban, and despite his age, he still wanted to provide for his family. But on Friday night, Moodley was stabbed multiple times at the business premises he operated from for 20 years. He died at the scene. His daughter, Gayle Moodley, said he lived on the property and returned to their family home in Dawncrest, Verulam, every second day. “The area is not safe, so instead of travelling at night, he preferred to stay there. While the tavern and the shop are in the same building, there are separate entrances. His bedroom and small kitchen were at the back of the shop.” Moodley said Jaipal returned home on Friday morning, showered and asked his wife, Tina, to prepare chicken curry with peas. "He left at 6pm to tend to the tavern. We then spoke over the phone at 6.25pm. I told him that my eldest son, Jamie Daniel, had returned home from work. My dad was a father figure to both Jamie and my other son Jared. My parents raised them and my dad was protective of them." She said Jamie's work colleague called him after 10pm. "A neighbour told him that the tavern door was open and that we should check up on my father. Dad did not answer his cellphone. Then my dad's friend arrived and told us that he had been stabbed. “Jared and my dad’s friend drove to the business before us. We contacted Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) and relatives to tell them what had happened. When my relatives and I arrived, the police and the paramedics were already there but my dad had already died." She said nothing was taken from the property. "The money was still there, so it was definitely not a robbery." Moodley said her father worked long hours to ensure the family had everything they needed. The tavern operated at weekends and he sold basic food items during the day. "He said if he did not open the shop, how would the community manage. That was the type of person he was; he was selfless. He often said that the day he retired, was the day he would die.“ She said her father was well liked and that it was difficult for them to understand who would want to kill him. “He built a good relationship with the community and his friends often visited our family home for lunch or supper.” Prem Balram, of Rusa, said Jaipal sustained multiple stab wounds. Captain Nqobile Gwala, a provincial police spokesperson, said a case of murder was being investigated and no arrests had been made by Thursday. Jaipal was cremated at the Verulam Crematorium on Sunday. The Post