Durban - BUSINESSES in Warwick Junction have welcomed the proposed demolition of an abandoned building which has become a haven for criminals and drug addicts. In a report tabled before the eThekwini Municipality’s executive committee (Exco) this week, the human settlements and infrastructure committee said a building – bordered by Julius Nyerere Avenue (formerly Warwick Avenue) and University, Lancers and Wills Road – would be redeveloped for social housing. Exco approved the proposed demolition and the report was expected to be discussed at full council today for final approval. The building was a disused warehouse. It was purchased by the then University of Natal in 1958, renovated and re-named Marian buildings for non-European students. Decades later, it was used by the KZN Ambulance Service. The eThekwini human settlements unit recommended that the building be demolished. The existing illegal occupants will be moved to temporary relocation areas. The unit asked for the approval of a budget of R4.5 million to fund the appointment of a social facilitator, the perimeter fencing and construction of a temporary relocation area from the Urban Settlement Development Grant (USDG) and/or municipal funding. The property would be handed to a social housing institution for the construction of a social housing development. Businesses in the vicinity were unaware of the proposed demolition, but welcomed any move to clean up the area. A businesswoman, who declined to be named, has been vociferous over the unsightly building. She had been emailing the city for more than a year, trying to find a solution to the problem. In an email to the city manager in October 2019, she wrote: “The property had been invaded 15 years ago. It is in a despicable condition. I had a meeting with the city, but nothing materialised. Crime is rampant because this is a safe haven. Businesses have been burgled several times. This area is the hub of activity where thousands of commuters pass through on a daily basis. I want to partner with the city (and) with housing the invaders such that they live healthy lives. Their source of water is from manholes, the fire hose and gutters.” In August last year, the city created a new unit – the problem buildings division – who are already making inroads in turning around derelict buildings, said city spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela. There are approximately 80 bad buildings within the inner city.  Some of the reasons for buildings being classified as problematic include being dilapidated, lack of maintenance and abandonment.  The city was given the green light by courts to start demolishing some of them. Daily News