Durban - A GUNMAN is still on the run after shooting a Phoenix resident four times outside Bridge City petrol station in Inanda yesterday. Mthokozisi Khoza, 28, and two of his close friends had gone to Bridge City BP garage to buy a meal. Khoza works as a supervisor in the garage but was off duty at the time. Khoza’s friend Clive Sokhela alleged that while leaving the convenience store and walking towards their car a man intentionally “bumped” into them. “He mumbled a few words. We asked for an apology and for him to leave us alone. In less than a minute he took out a firearm and began shooting at us. I saw him aim the gun in my direction when he fired the second shot. I took cover and crawled over to a power box. We scattered in different directions. I watched as the shooter walked around casually with the gun in his hand. I then alerted a police vehicle nearby,” Sokhela said. His friends rushed him to a local hospital. According to Sokhela, Khoza was shot four times in different places and was scheduled to undergo surgery to remove a bullet from his abdomen. Private security company Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) spokesperson Prem Balram alleged that the victim and the suspect began arguing over parking.  He said the suspect then allegedly drew a firearm and shot the man four times. He confirmed that the victim was rushed privately to a hospital while the suspect sped off in a Ford Bantam bakkie. Sokhela was not sure what the argument could have been about. He had not seen the shooter getting into a vehicle.  Khoza’s father directed all queries to Sokhela. “I doubt it was over a parking dispute. Mthokozisi’s family are in shock and praying for him to regain his health,“ he said. Khoza has a four-year-old son. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said Khoza sustained gunshot wounds to the arm, stomach and on the thigh and also confirmed that the suspect had fled the scene after the incident.  Ntuzuma SAPS are investigating a case of attempted murder. Daily News