Durban - NEARLY 10 people were arrested and a number of fines issued when the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs (EDTEA) visited businesses in the Durban city centre yesterday. MEC Ravi Pillay, along with officials from Metro Police, SAPS, eThekwini Municipality departments, Home Affairs, the KZN Liquor Authority and other stakeholders checked whether Disaster Management Act regulations were being adhered to and the validity of liquor and business or trading licenses. The team visited stores, taverns, bars, restaurants and salons near the beachfront along Dr Pixley Kaseme (West) Street and nearby streets. Bars and salons visited had poor ventilation, lack of social distancing, packed to capacity with both customers and employees not wearing face masks. This led to warnings and fines being issued. Managers and owners were also educated about the risks Covid-19 posed in those environments. The MEC also encouraged them to have better spacing and ventilation. The first arrests came at ZM Supermarket, where two foreign nationals who failed to produce their documents were placed under arrest. Skin lightening creams were also removed from the shelves because they were illegal in South Africa. The man behind the counter, who claimed not to be the owner, was also fined R1 000 for trading without a licence. The store was closed and he was also arrested for employing undocumented foreign nationals. Another two people from another store were also arrested for being undocumented foreign nationals and their employer was also arrested for employing them. Pillay also visited Cosmetic Bag Unisex Salon, where he found the staff and customers flouting regulations. The customers and staff were not wearing their masks, there was no social distancing, it was overcrowded with poor ventilation. The manager could not answer many of the questions posed to her. She had no idea whether the business had a licence but also said there was a register customers filled in, but she could not produce it. Attempts were made to contact the owner to no avail. Pillay said they were targeting areas throughout the province. On Wednesday they will be in Pietermaritzburg. Teams would be conducting investigations, issuing notices, if necessary closing businesses and making arrests. “Home Affairs is issuing notices, and the liquor authority is issuing notices. In some cases, there are admission of guilt fines but the liquor authority will be closely watching the possibility of suspending or withdrawing the licence or not renewing it,” said Pillay. “Until we have those kinds of consequences, we’re not going to be changing human behaviour and that’s what this exercise is all about.” KZN Liquor Authority acting CEO Bheki Radebe said they were happy with the way many businesses carried themselves, especially when it came to the lives of their customers, but others did not comply. “What we’re really encouraging is that they close businesses on time. As business owners, we also encourage them to follow the regulations and think about their customers. We want there to be sanitisers, people should wear masks and ensure it’s not full,” said Radebe. Daily News 