Durban - Rajesh Hiralall, a well-known attorney, has died after suffering a heart attack while being treated for Covid-19 at the Mount Edgecombe Life Hospital on Monday. Hiralall, 52, of uMhlanga, had a fever two weeks ago and went to his general practitioner to test for the virus. His wife, Sonitha Hiralall, who is also an attorney, said his results were positive. "He was given medication, but a week later, he continued to feel ill and I took him to the clinic in uMhlanga for a check up. He was then admitted to the Mount Edgecombe Hospital and placed on a ventilator. On Monday morning, he suffered a heart attack and passed on." He was cremated on Monday evening at the Verulam Crematorium. Hiralall grew up in Shallcross, and after matriculating from Marklands Secondary School, pursued his law degree at the then University of Durban-Westville. He served his articles with Harold Ganas attorneys in Verulam. In 1997, he opened a practice in Gem City in Phoenix and four years later moved to his current premises in Sunford. “My husband was passionate about law. He was not afraid to take on cases. He fought for justice and to help people. His clients were like his family. He was a simple person with a golden heart.” She said they met at university. “We would have been married for 23 years next Monday (December 14). It is going to be very difficult this year without him.” The couple have two children Prajna and Pranav. They are both law students at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. Prajna is in her final year and Pranav in his second. “I will be running the practice but the children will be joining me when they qualify. Their father built a strong legacy and they will have to continue in his practice once they qualify.” Sonitha and the children tested negative for the virus. “We are a close knit family. His death is difficult to accept. We never expected this. Families need to be cautious and practise good hygiene. Covid-19 is real. It kills and it will destroy your life, like it destroyed ours in a matter of eight days." An advocate who worked with Hiralall, but declined to be named, said: "I worked with him for over 10 years. He was dedicated to his clients and he was never afraid to go the extra mile. He worked tirelessly to get justice for his clients." During a meeting of the KZN executive committee last week, the hosting of large scale events were discouraged as they could become Covid-19 super-spreaders. In a statement, the KZN government said the executive council also noted the country was still under lockdown and the state of disaster was still in place. “People are encouraged to visit and enjoy the province of KwaZulu-Natal. They can hold small family activities without compromising the disaster management regulations. There is evidence of the second wave, which is becoming real in other provinces. KZN is edging closer towards the Covid-19 second wave cliff, according to the latest figures. “The government understands the social and economic impact of not hosting major events at popular locations in the province during the festive season. However, it is the view of the government that the lives of our citizens matter and need to be protected.” According to reports, the KZN local government is considering a proposal to close all beaches during the festive season to combat the rising Covid-19 infections in the province. The Post