Durban - Glenwood residents are concerned that another building development being constructed in the suburb will add strain to already overburdened local infrastructure. Resident Maria Van Niekerk, who lives near the development which is being constructed in Chestnut Road, said she was concerned because it was alleged that the developers were  converting a 12-unit apartment block into a 24-unit building. She is concerned that the flats might be used for student accommodation which would also add to noise pollution in the area. Van Niekerk said she filed an objection to the development with the eThekwini Municipality that had issued a stop work notice but alleged that the developer continued to build. However, developer Subhash Maharaj said he had complied with the notice and criticised complainants regarding their concerns. Van Niekerk said she was concerned that the development would lead to overcrowding of the area and put strain on infrastructure. “We have had four burst water pipes in our road that has pushed up the tar because there are too many people,” she said. “I am objecting to him to converting these units into student accommodation. We are going to have blocked drains again and then we don’t have water for days. It’s an absolute nightmare,” she said. Heather Roos, chairperson of the Umbilo Community Policing Forum and the Bulwer Safety and Urban Regeneration Forum said she was worried that the capacity of the block was being expanded. “The infrastructure in our community is suffering and this is why we are having so many power cuts and the sewer is bursting because they are not upgrading the infrastructure. They need to enforce the laws and also look at how this is going to impact the traffic,” she said. EThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said this week that the site had been inspected on November 11. “We found that unauthorised building operations were in progress. A site instruction has been issued and handed to the site foreman on the premises and a stop work notice was issued on November 13, 2020, and handed to the owner of the property. The consequences were explained to the owner should he fail to comply,” he said. “The site was and is still being monitored. On November 17, we visited the site and found that work was still in progress and the stop work notice has been escalated to the law enforcement section for further action,” he said. Maharaj said he had received the notice and complied. “I confirm having received the notice from the council and have complied with the terms of the notice. Whatever activity occurred thereafter on the premises was not in breach of the notice as I had necessary reparation work for damages caused to the property as a result of three break-ins I had in a short space of time,” Maharaj said. “I believe the complaint was triggered by persons with a historic mentality who have not embraced a contemporaneous mentality. These persons have a preconceived notion that the building is going to be utilised for a purpose that, in their jaundiced view, would lead to the area becoming seedy and undesirable thereby adversely affecting the value of their properties,” he said. The Mercury