Durban - For Jordan Basdeo his father will always be his hero. Prem Basdeo, 60, was to stand trial in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria for the alleged murder of his second wife, Dawn Basdeo. But he was shot and killed during an armed robbery and attempted hijacking last Sunday in Atteridgeville, Gauteng. Basdeo, was a former superintendent at Sydenham SAPS in Durban. Basdeo, formerly from Southgate, Phoenix, was previously charged with the murder of his first wife, Neetha. In December 2000, Neetha's body was found in a shipping container with a single gunshot wound to the head. They were living in the container with Jordan, who was 16 at the time, while their home underwent renovations. Basdeo was acquitted of the charge in the Durban High Court in 2004. After his acquittal, he was re-instated in the SAPS. He relocated to Gauteng where he married Dawn, who was a family friend. In 2016, he resigned to start a trucking business. Dawn went missing in June 2018. Her body was never found. Basdeo was linked to her killing and disappearance after police found a bloodied knife in the home he shared with her. Jordan, 34, who was with his father when he was shot, said they spent the day at Hartbeespoort Dam. "My father wanted to clear his head for the trial the next day. He was confident that he and his attorney had all the facts to prove his innocence." On their way home to Waterkloof in Pretoria they had a tyre puncture on the R104. After changing the tyre, Jordan said a white VW Polo stopped next to them. "There were three men, a driver and two passengers. They were wearing masks and beanies. The passengers got out of the vehicle and asked if everything was okay. One suspect pulled out a gun and demanded our keys. The other stood behind my dad." Jordan said he told the suspect that there was cash and their cellphones near the driver's side of the vehicle. "As the suspect approached the driver's side, his accomplice grabbed my father and tried to pull him to the ground. My father shouted 'Jordan run, Jordan run, Jordan run' and I did just that." He said he trusted his father's instincts because he was a former policeman. "I ran toward some bushes, tumbled down an embankment and hid there. Then I heard a single gunshot go off and I saw the suspects drive off in their car. I crawled up the embankment and walked towards our vehicle. "I found my father lying in the back seat in a pool of blood. He was shot in the chest and stabbed in the stomach. His upper body was across the seat and his legs were out of the vehicle. I had to pull his body into the car." Jordan said he drove to the nearest garage for directions to a hospital and he eventually followed an ambulance to the hospital where Basdeo died. "I was hysterical. I could not believe what was happening. My father is my hero and my best friend. He took a bullet to save my life. He was a wonderful father to me and my brother Joel. He taught us to be God-fearing. He loved Dawn's children. My kids were the apple of his eye." Jordan said the allegations levelled against his father were fabricated. "He was killed before he could get a chance to prove his innocence. He loved Dawn. They were the role model couple. Even with my mother, Neetha's death, she was killed during a house robbery. My dad, brother and I were not at home when it happened. My father was acquitted of those charges but despite the court's decision those allegations still stuck with him. We were not living in a container but a park home." Jordan said he and his brother were going for counselling. Kate Llewellyn-Smith, the attorney and spokesperson for Dawn's family, said the matter was recalled in court on Friday. "The State provided Judge Bert Bam with the death certificate of the accused, along with the report positively identifying him by fingerprint. In the circumstances, the prosecutor had no option but to stop the prosecution in terms of Section 6(2) of the Criminal Procedure Act. The matter has not been withdrawn but rather is brought to a stop and Prem will remain reflected as the accused in Dawn's murder." Llewellyn-Smith said in having fought tirelessly to obtain justice for Dawn, the family had now indicated their willingness and desire to let the matter go. "They want to take steps to move forward and to celebrate the life of Dawn in a ceremony to be arranged in the coming months. On behalf of the family, thank you to everyone who has supported, prayed for, and offered the family assistance during what can only be described as an absolute nightmare for them. They were carried by and forged on only as a result of the love and support of those around them." Captain Kay Makhubela, a Gauteng police spokesperson, said a case of murder and armed robbery was opened for investigation. No arrests have been made. Basdeo will be cremated at the Braamfontein Crematorium. The Post