Durban - KWAZULU-NATAL Premier Sihle Zikalala has called for radical changes to the country’s Constitution and the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), saying this would help speed up South Africa’s economic transformation agenda. Speaking on Thursday during an event to mark the 24th anniversary of the Constitution, he said sections of the Constitution should soon be amended in order to give effect to the idea of expropriation of land without compensation, which he said would ensure access to land was no longer a stumbling block to the transformation of the economy and the empowerment of black people, including women and the youth. The occasion, at the Mandela Capture Site in Howick, was a celebration of the day Nelson Mandela signed the final draft of the Constitution into law at Sharpeville, Vereeniging, on December 10, 1996. Howick was the last place Madiba experienced as a free person. He was arrested in the town by apartheid police in August 1962. “The Constitution is an expression of the aspirations of our people. It is a living document that must serve the interest of society, including redress. Based on the will of the people and the needs of society, it can be amended,” said Zikalala. “In this regard, we must forge ahead in reviewing our prescripts that hinder transformation, especially Section 25 of the Constitution, to give effect to land redistribution, including enforcing expropriation of land without compensation,” he said. Zikalala called for a review of the PFMA, saying it might also be seen as an impediment to the goals of transformation for KZN and the country. His views on the act came after the recent court ruling by the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA), which declared the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Regulations invalid, after business group Sakeliga appealed to the court.The SCA had said it was “invalid and unconstitutional” for the government to apply pre-disqualification criteria, such as black economic empowerment requirements, to tenders in public procurement. The second highest court in the land had found that the Preferential Procurement Regulations of 2017 conflicted with existing procurement legislation and the Constitution. But Zikalala said: “The persistent economic imbalance continues to marginalise the black majority with small and micro enterprises stifled by monopolies. “Without enforcing radical economic transformation, blacks in general and Africans in particular will remain at the periphery as if they have no government that they voted (into power) to represent their aspirations.” He maintained, though, that South Africa belonged to all citizens, irrespective of colour or creed. “We equally mean the betterment of our country lies in our hands, as equal compatriots: African, white, coloured and Indian communities,” he said. Calling for all people to embrace, and familiarise themselves with, the Constitution as the supreme law of the land, Zikalala said the KZN government was committed to end farm killings. “Equally, we must fight the killings of farmers and agree that violence and murder is not a solution to our problems. At the end, we must achieve peaceful coexistence and harmony where all people will enjoy decent livelihoods and where their human rights are protected. “Let us unite and fight the demon of racism that continues to bedevil farming areas, where people are subjected to unspeakable atrocities and inhumane living conditions.” The Mercury