Durban - A suspect wanted for several murders including that of a two policemen, and the attempted murder of another was gunned down by police during a shoot-out on Saturday. Police spokeswoman, Colonel Katlego Mogale said the wanted man was shot by police in  Kwadengezi after officers from the Serious Organised Crime were tasked with the investigation into the murder of Captain Molefe who was gunned down in his vehicle in the early hours of Monday morning on December 14. Molefe was in full uniform and on his way to work. “The 72 hour activation plan was initiated immediately compromising of Crime Intelligence, National Intervention Unit and K9 Pietermaritzburg. The members worked tirelessly around the clock to trace the suspect who was located at Kwanyuswa in Botha Hill,” Mogale said. “The information received from Crime Intelligence was operationalised and with the assistance of National Intervention Unit and K9 Pietermaritzburg.  The suspect’s room was penetrated and upon realising what was happening, the suspect opened fire at the members who responded and fatally wounding him.  A black 9mm Beretta pistol with two magazines was recovered on the scene,” she said. According to police, preliminary investigation has since established that the suspect was also sought for six murder cases including the murder of Sgt Zulu who was gunned down whilst in his private vehicle with his wife in front of his gate on 22 May 2020 and an attempted murder of a policeman. Mogale said the Acting National Head of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, Lt General Tebello Mosikili applauded the members for a job well-done. “She indicated that it was unfortunate that there was loss of life and encouraged the team to leave no stone unturned in order to bring all those responsible for the killing of police officers to book. Further information received alleges that the deceased suspect was a hitman for and conducting taxi and political hits and might not be working alone.  Investigation into his involvement in other crimes and his accomplices continues,” Mogale said. Daily News