Durban - THE ANC Women’s League in KwaZulu-Natal yesterday hailed the reinstatement of Zandile Gumede back into the legislature as a strong victory for women, stopping just short of accusing the party of deep-rooted sexism. Gumede’s reinstatement was recommended by the provincial integrity commission following her appearance before it in October. In an apparent reference to the on-going controversy involving ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule and the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC), the provincial secretary of the influential KZN women’s wing, Nonhlanhla Gabela, said uneven treatment of members’ cases was glaring in the ANC. While the NEC had failed to implement the integrity commission’s recommendation that Magashule step aside,  the same NEC’s decision (to suspend accused leaders) had been implemented by the party’s provincial executive committee with regards to Gumede. In a report leaked recently, the national integrity commission recommended that Magashule be recalled by the NEC as national secretary-general pending his appearance before the commission. It is understood that some ANC KZN members feel that Gumede, who faces criminal allegations relating to a R430 million waste removal tender fraud and corruption case, had been treated unfairly in that she had been suspended, while Magashule on the other hand remained in his position even though he is also facing criminal charges in connection with a R255m asbestos eradication tender issued in 2014 while he was still Free State premier. “There are people we see at national level, who are facing criminal charges, but they are not told to step aside. We believe that (Gumede) has been denied her rights as an ANC member as well as a citizen of SA. In terms of the Constitution, everyone remains innocent until they are proven guilty,” Gabela said. Gumede, formerly eThekwini mayor, is expected to be sworn back into the legislature, where she had just been deployed when she was abruptly sent packing in August. She was suspended following an NEC decision that all members facing criminal charges should step aside from their official duties and appear before the party's integrity commission. “She has clearly respected all party protocols and processes, which proves that she is a loyal member of the ANC. This means she is capable of participating in all party structures and is fit for leadership,” Gabela said. Should branches nominate Gumede for the position of regional chairperson in eThekwini, the women’s league would back her up, said an upbeat Gabela. Spokesperson for Gumede’s supporters, Mzomuhle Dube, said they would now intensify their campaign for her re-election as the ANC’s eThekwini regional chairperson in the run-up to the party’s conference early next year. “We’ve always placed our trust in her name and character; we’ll continue supporting her because she’s given so much to the ANC,” he said. Today, the ANC in the province is expected to announce further implications of the PEC’s decisions. “It will give responses to issues in the public domain,” said provincial spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela, who declined to elaborate. The Mercury