Durban - Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises (SMMEs) were hit hard by the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, with almost half of them having permanently closed their doors. This was revealed in a report by Finfind, a financial services firm which looked at the impact of the lockdown on SMMEs from the start of the lockdown to August According to the report about 42.7% of small businesses closed down due to the pandemic. The report also revealed that the construction sector was the hardest hit by the lockdown and had the most closures, with 14.2% of businesses closing their doors for good. The food and beverage industry experienced 9.9% permanent closure of businesses, while accommodation, hospitality, tourism and travel activities had 9.7% of businesses shut down. The provinces which experienced the highest closures were Gauteng with 40.6%, followed by KwaZulu-Natal which had 15.8%. Finfind chief executive, Darlene Menzies, said that since there was an immediate loss of jobs once lockdown was implemented, there was a loss of 60% or 4720 full-time jobs across all SMMEs. According to Menzies, the total number of full-time employees before the start of lockdown was 7728, however, as the country moved to level 3, that number was down to 3008. “An overall 60% reduction in full-time employment was identified and 76.8% reduction in part-time employment. The impact on the gig economy is significant with a decrease in employment opportunities for casual workers of 53.5%,” elaborated Menzies. She further said while nearly 70% of the businesses do their financial record keeping in-house, it is concerning that only 28% had up-to-date management accounts. Menzies said a high percentage of the businesses had taken on debt prior to lockdown. She said this, coupled with the fact that only 34% had cash reserves available, and the inability to generate income during lockdown level 5, put an unbearable financial strain on the businesses. “The majority of the businesses that survived lockdown had been in business for more than 3 years. Start-ups and early-stage businesses were the hardest hit during lockdown,” she said, adding that businesses earning under R120 000 per annum suffered the highest closures. “These are also the businesses least likely to qualify for funding.” According to the Department of Small Business Development, the  Small Enterprise Finance Agency (Sefa) approved R513 million in payouts for small businesses whose finances have been negatively affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry said that the results of the Finfind report aligned with its own observations arising from their recent survey of their members. Chamber chief executive, Palesa Phili, said that they had also noted that SMMEs, spaza shops and the informal businesses were severely affected given their reliance on monthly income to sustain their operations. Phili said it was going to be extremely difficult for small businesses to survive without interventions from the government through stimulus programmes, sector interventions and an effective economic recovery plan. She said financial institutions also needed to provide support through financing strategies and products. “As an organised business, we believe collaboration and open dialogue between business and government is key to formulate sustainable solutions which would translate into economic gains,” she said. Phili added that the pandemic has indeed taught business leaders and entrepreneurs to prepare for the unexpected. The Mercury