Durban - Zubeda Beebi Haniff was one of 250 residents who received title deeds to their council flats in Shallcross from the Department of Human Settlements on Saturday. “I never dreamt that at the age of 74, I would be a homeowner,” said Haniff. “I only wish my husband, Mohammed Sadick, was still alive to enjoy this moment with me.” When Haniff got married more than 50 years ago, they moved into a one-bedroom flat in Overport. The couple lived in the flat for three years before moving to another rental flat in Greyville. “At the time, I had two children. Our home in Overport was too small for a growing family, so we opted to move.” Haniff worked as a cashier in a takeaway and her husband sold offals from door to door. In 1950, due to the Group Areas Act, Haniff and her family were removed from their home in Greyville. “Government officials told us that we would have to move to Shallcross and that we needed to choose a flat. The flats were of a good size. It came with a kitchen, two bedrooms and a toilet and bathroom. We were excited. We initially started paying rental of R13.” Over the years, Haniff had three more children. “My husband and I earned very little. We had a tough life but, despite our challenges, we always had what we needed. The thought of buying or even owning a home was out of our reach. But today, I can proudly say that I am a homeowner. I am so happy. Receiving my title deed was the happiest day of my life,” said Haniff, who shares the home with her daughter. Another resident, Rookmin Lorick prayed that one day she would own her home. On Saturday, her dream was realised.  Lorick, 73, a mother of three, lived in Pinetown with her husband's family until they were also relocated to Shallcross. “I have lived here for 50 years and my prayers have finally been answered. I am thankful to God that I got to see this day. This is the best Christmas gift that I could have received. My first Christmas owning my home.” Lorick said she hoped the department would continue upgrading the flats even though they have taken ownership. “Being a pensioner, it would be difficult financially to complete the upgrade on my own.” Her grandson lives with her. Previn Vedan, the ward councillor for the area, said that even with the residents taking up ownership, Neliswa Peggy Nkonyeni, the MEC for the Department of Human Settlements and Public Works, had given an undertaking that upgrades to the buildings would continue. Mbulelo Baloyi, the provincial department's spokesperson, said: “The department is presently rolling out its accelerated Title-Deed Restoration Programme. The beneficiaries have been accorded their rightful ownership of their houses, in line with the Human Settlements Department’s Enhanced Extended Discount Benefit Scheme (EEDBS) policy instrument which, in the main, caters for government housing stock built before 1994.” He said the EEDBS promoted home ownership among tenants of state-financed rental stock, including formal housing and serviced sites. “The ownership of a title deed means the owner can sell such property but the government discourages such as we believe property, as an appreciative, asset can be transferred inter-generationally within a family.” Mbulelo said the programme focussed on other areas in the province. “This includes the eThekwini Municipality, particularly the pre-1994 government housing stock that fell under the erstwhile House of Delegates and House of Representatives administration.” The Post