Durban - A man linked to a hijacking in Moses Kotane Road (Sparks Road) was found in a King Edward Hospital with gunshot wounds. A dramatic car chase and shoot-out occured in Overport on Monday moments after a car was hijacked from a car dealership. KwaZulu-Natal Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said it is alleged the victim was robbed of his vehicle on Sparks Road in Overport by three unknown men. Gwala said his vehicle was later found abandoned on King Cethshwayo (Jan Smuts) Highway and Chapell Drive in Sherwood. It is alleged that security was present at the car dealership and fired several shots at the car. The driver of the hijacked vehicle allegedly lost control and veered into several cars in Overport. Sources close to the investigation said a man believed to be involved in the carjacking was found in hospital with three gunshot wounds which includes two in his neck and one in his back. He allegedly arrived at the hospital with a woman presumed to be his mother. She told doctors at the hospital that he was an Uber driver and that he was hijacked and shot. Gwala said police and a private security company were immediately alerted once the carjacking was reported. "A chase ensued and there was a shoot-out between the suspects and police. During the exchange of gunfire, the suspects lost control of the vehicle and collided with vehicles parked on the side of the road. They abandoned the vehicle on Jan Smuts Avenue and fled on foot," Gwala said. She added, "Initial investigations conducted on the scene revealed that one of the suspects was injured. Due to a concerted effort by the team, a 23-year-old suspect was located at a local hospital where he was being treated for gunshot wounds. He was positively identified and linked to the case. The suspect remains under police guard whilst at hospital." He will appear before the Durban Magistrate’s Court for carjacking once he is discharged from hospital. The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula welcomed the arrest of the suspect. “Criminals should know that police officers are stationed strategically to respond to reports of criminality in our province. I am confident that the outstanding suspects who managed to evade arrest will be caught soon as our investigations continue,” he said. Daily News