Durban - IN the tireless fight against Covid-19, front-line workers have become unsung heroes who risk their lives every day so that others might live. Last week, 331 medical personnel were confirmed to have contracted the virus at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital. On Sunday, Premier Sihle Zikalala said 1 557 health workers were infected in the province. “Among the 40 045 cases in KwaZulu-Natal, 1 557 health-care workers are infected with Covid-19. Approximately 60% of the infected are nurses. Of the total infected, 12 of them have succumbed to the disease since the beginning of the pandemic. “Nevertheless, those deaths are 12 too many,” Zikalala had said. Among the front-line workers who contracted the virus and have died as the pandemic moves toward its peak, was Dr Abdul Haque Solwa, of Newlands West. Solwa, 76, died at the Netcare St Augustine’s Hospital on Friday shortly after contracting the virus. His death was the third loss for his family. His brother, Dawood Solwa, 73, a businessman, died from the virus 10 days earlier, and prior to that, their cousin, Ahmed Solwa, also died. Solwa’s nephew, Dr Ismail Solwa, said his uncle, who was diabetic, did not display many symptoms and was in good health. “He was health conscious and made sure he exercised regularly. About three weeks ago, he felt ill and got tested. Shortly after testing positive, he was admitted to the Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital, and two days later, he was transferred to St Augustine’s Hospital.” Ismail said his uncle developed pneumonia and was placed on a ventilator. He was buried at the Brook Street Cemetery. Dr Mohamed Solwa, director of the Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital, and a relative of Dr Solwa, said: “From the time he graduated from university in Lucknow, India, he dedicated his life to helping people. He was a GP in Parlock for 50 years and had a heart for the people. If patients were unable to see him, he did house calls. People loved him and appreciated him.” Dr Solwa and his family moved to Parlock in 1970 after they were evicted from Greyville because of the Group Areas Act. He started the Parlock Medical Centre, which a local doctor bought when Dr Solwa retired 10 years ago. Mohamed said although Dr Solwa retired, he still wanted to help people. “He did locum and voluntary work at several community clinics and centres. He also assisted at several hospitals, including Shifa Private Hospital.” A doctor in the area who contracted the virus said he decided to get tested when he displayed a few of the symptoms. “I am not critical for now. I just feel very weak and tired.” A Durban pharmacist, who suspected he contracted the virus at his workplace after seven of his 14 staff tested positive, has recovered from Covid-19. He said he had diarrhoea for about five days and that it did not settle with over-the-counter medication. “I consulted a physician who diagnosed me with viral gastroenteritis and changed my medication. He gave me an option to be hospitalised for a day or two to treat my dehydration.” He said he opted for home treatment and that a GP set up a drip at his house to treat the dehydration. “I then had a loss of appetite and taste and developed a persistent cough. My brother, a GP, suggested that I go for a Covid-19 test.” He said he did not receive his results within 24 hours and that he ended up consulting a gastroenterologist who suggested he seek treatment at a hospital. The pharmacist said his condition worsened. He suffered from shortness of breath and a loss of energy. He was hospitalised, and a follow- up Covid-19 test was done. The results were positive. “After undergoing intensive treatment, my condition improved by the third day. My appetite and taste returned. I was discharged on the sixth day and isolated at home for a further 10 days. The pharmacist returned to work on July 7. He said he and his staff, who have since recovered, could have contracted the virus from handling money or patients’ prescriptions at the pharmacy. POST