Durban - SOUTH Africans are feeling the financial impact of escalating food prices during the lockdown, especially after having to endure salary cuts, unemployment and shortened work weeks. Menisha Somiah, a bank consultant, lives in Rydalvale, Phoenix, with her husband and 1-year-old son. Her husband is a manager for a lighting company. She said she noticed that the prices she paid for her monthly household detergents had risen by about R100. “Every month, I usually buy two bottles of Handy Andy and two bottles of Domestos, as well as one tub of Ariel capsules for the washing. “I also buy two bottles of Jik, a bottle of Dettol floor cleaner and two bottles of Harpic toilet cleaner, as well as other detergents. I pay between R400 and R450. Now I pay at least R100 more.” Somiah said the prices of meat, toilet paper and sanitisers had also increased. “During the lockdown, I have learnt a lesson - always save for a rainy day. The future is unpredictable, and our jobs and incomes are not guaranteed.” Chrisenthamah Govender, 59, of Ottawa, a single parent, lives with her unemployed daughter and 5-year-old grandson. Before the lockdown, she worked as a caregiver, but she is no longer employed. She said the prices of many of the essential grocery items she bought - such as cooking oil, rice, sugar, tinned fish, teabags and potatoes - had increased. “The prices noticeably increased by a few rand. While it might not have impacted the average person, I had to cut down on other items on my food list.” Selvan Soobiah, 31, of Reservoir Hills, said: “It’s shocking that people took advantage of a pandemic.” He works for a motor repair company and his monthly wage was reduced during the lockdown. So was his wife’s wage. She works in the hospitality industry. “Before the lockdown, we were doing well. We lived an above-average lifestyle and loved going out and experiencing new things Durban had to offer. “But since our salary cuts, we can only afford the bare minimum, as we have a bond, two vehicles and other expenses. “The prices of beef and chicken went up by R10 to R20, and the prices of coffee, milk and toilet rolls also went up by a few rand. “We used to buy in bulk for the month, now we buy just what we need. I also stopped stocking up on chips and biscuits.” Ashika Naidoo, a relationship banker from Phoenix, is the sole provider at her home after her husband’s business was affected by the lockdown. “I had to downscale on groceries. I only buy what is needed. I remember buying meat for between R79.99 and R85.99 per kilogram. Now it’s increased by at least R10 a kilogram.” Veena Rajyah, of Belvedere in oThongathi (Tongaat), a volunteer teacher aide at a special needs school, is a single mother with a 13-year-old son. She receives child support and a stipend as a volunteer. “Prices of items, including oil, have increased. Shopping during Covid-19 times means I can only purchase basic necessities. “I am living from day to day.” POST