Durban - CHILD advocacy groups have praised the Justice Department for the provisional suspension of Kholeka Bodlani, a controversial acting regional magistrate in uMlazi. This follows Minister Ronald Lamola’s announcement that Bodlani was suspended pending the outcome of an investigation into her fitness to hold office as a magistrate. Project Bobbi Bear’s Jackie Branfield said if some of Bodlani’s judgments were questionable, then all her judgments should be reviewed. “In the past, complaints have been pouring in about the police, but lately advocacy groups are pointing fingers at the courts. We have been exposed to a magistrate who, instead of protecting the vulnerable against sexual predators, decided to send a message that women and children have no value in society,” she said. Branfield said they would watch the matter closely to ensure that justice was served. Lamola announced Bodlani’s provisional suspension after her conduct was referred to him by the Magistrates Commission. “A judicial quality assessment of Ms Bodlani’s work revealed serious irregularities and shortcomings, most notably that a number of her cases had to be sent on special review in terms of section 304(4) of the Criminal Procedure Act as several serious shortcomings and incompetent sentences were imposed by her. She was allocated to the Sexual Offences Court and dealt with cases of child victims who were raped by adults and the prescribed minimum sentence for such offences is life imprisonment. “In almost all the finalised cases which were assessed, Ms Bodlani imposed sentences where the accused were cautioned or strongly reprimanded or wholly suspended,” said Lamola. He said the suspended sentences were found to have been both incompetent and incomplete. Magistrates Commission spokesperson advocate Cassim Moosa could not be reached for comment, and attempts to reach Bodlani were unsuccessful. Bodlani is said to have been lenient to rapists in that she would impose minimal to wholly suspended sentences on child sex abusers. In February this year child rapist Khonokwakhe Mkhize was sentenced to life imprisonment by a different magistrate after he was paroled in December 2018. He is reported to have raped a 10-year-old girl and was sentenced by Bodlani to five years in August 2015. In another case, she reportedly let go a man accused of raping a teenage girl because she believed he was gay and not interested in women. Daily News