Durban - DESPITE fashionistas and punters not being able to fill the grandstands at the Vodacom Durban July (VDJ) at Greyville Racecourse on Saturday, many will enjoy the races in designer wear at home. The event will be held behind closed doors due to the Covid-19 lockdown and televised on DStv and Tellytrack. The fashion shows will be live-streamed on social media. This year’s theme - announced in February before the lockdown - is “Butterflies”. Logie Naidoo, the former speaker of eThekwini Municipality, has attended the VDJ for 25 years. He said he would continue with the annual tradition and get dressed up. Naidoo intends to wear a light pink suit with a matching butterfly bow-tie. “My family and I will try to make it the best experience from our home,” said Naidoo. “We’ll set up a table in the garden with champagne and snacks, and watch the races inside. “Despite the pandemic, we can’t lose hope. We can still enjoy these events, but safely.” He said over the years, he attended the VDJ as a representative of the city. “Before the main race, there used to be the eThekwini Cup, which I would hand over to the winner. The love for the event continued as there is always a great atmosphere and being able to enjoy the day with friends.” Naidoo said while he was not an ardent punter, he would place some bets. “For me, it’s more about the fashion, cuisine and camaraderie. However, I’m still deciding who to place my money on in the main race.” Theshen Naicker, an actor and make-up artist whose alter ego is “Aunty Sheila” on social media, said he would also dress up, prepare a three-course meal and watch the races and fashion shows. “We should enjoy the experience from the comfort of our homes while staying safe. I will not let the day go by.” He will also wear a pink suit, with a floral tie, and have butterfly-inspired eye make-up. “I love the theme this year and connect with butterflies as I feel they are calm and peaceful.” Naicker will watch the races with his partner at his Musgrave home. “I intend to be quite extravagant. I want to create the experience of fine-dining, open a bottle of the finest champagne and enjoy the races as well as the fashion shows.” Nicole Maistry, Mrs India South Africa 2017/2018, said: “I always attended the VDJ with my family and friends. “The atmosphere of fashion-meets-horse racing is addictive, even if you are not a gambler.” She said she and her husband, Keegan, used to spend the day in the hospitality suites or tents and would then go to the viewing area to watch the main race. “The food at the VDJ is definitely a highlight and I enjoyed looking out for new, up-and-coming designers showcasing their talents. This event lends a great platform to artists and designers.” Maistry said her family and friends also looked forward to the fashion theme being announced and they would then work out ways of interpreting it. “In previous years, I sourced local designers and boutiques to help create exposure for their brands. This year, I collaborated with the amazing Drama Queen Boutique and its stylist, Michelle Reddy. “I chose a pink dress and I was supposed to have a fascinator made, which would embrace the theme of butterflies, but I opted not to have it made after it was announced that the event would be held behind doors.” She said she would place her bets online this year and would set up the television outdoors to recreate the VDJ atmosphere. “For now, I’m still deciding on the favourites for this year’s placing. I’m looking at some newcomers and old champions.” Maistry, who lives in Effingham, said she would also cater meals to the family’s taste - with a variety of finger foods and snacks. “We will also have our own photo shoot to mark our VDJ home experience. I’ll miss seeing my friends but I won’t miss braving the cold.” Asked about her dress, she said she intended to wear it on Saturday and her husband and children, Mikah, 12, and Kenzo 8, would wear formal attire. Neloshini Naidu and her husband, Kevin, of KwaDukuza, have attended the VDJ for four years and won the most striking couple title last year. “My husband is an ultrasonics engineer and I’m a pharmacist, but we have a passion for fashion and anything that concerns being creative,” said Naidu. She said they used to arrive early at the VDJ to participate in the fashion show. “We go through the selection process and we are then trained on how to model our designs. We then book into the tents.” Naidu said her husband was the one who placed the bets. After the theme was announced in February, she said they had to decide on a colour for their outfits. “I wanted the outfits to stand out, so we chose a contrasting fabric colour of black with the butterflies loosely attached to our outfits to make them seem more naturally attracted to us. “To add a little bit of creativity and magic, we decided to dress as a witch and a wizard. It’s sad that we are missing this year’s event and are unable to showcase our designs. “However, we dressed up and did a photo shoot in March before the lockdown was implemented.” They will bet online and watch the races on TV. “We will be backing Got The Greenlight in the main race. We always back jockey Muzi Yeni, as we believe he is capable of stealing the race.” Natasha Henry said she usually attended the general area at the VDJ, but won a VIP experience last year. She said this year she was set on wearing blue and gold. Henry said her designer was finalising her off-the-shoulder dress and matching coat and that she intended to wear butterfly-inspired jewellery. “My money is on Do It Again, who has not disappointed over the years.” She and her family will have a braai at their home in Isipingo. “I will miss the crowd, the champagne and taking amazing pictures, but I will not miss the aching feet from a long day in high heels.” Brandon Pillay, a Chatsworth activist, said Transnet invited him to its hospitality tent in 2011 and eThekwini Municipality invited him to its hospitality suite the following year. He said he dressed according to the theme by designing the suits and having them tailored by Boyz Khabela. This year, Pillay decided to buy a checked coat which has a butterfly badge and he will spend the day with his family at his home in Chatsworth. “But I’ll be using my new coat while I enjoy the races.” POST