Durban - THE impact of the lockdown is not only felt by human beings but by animals too. Tanya Fleischer, marketing manager at the Durban and Coast SPCA, said day after day the unwanted, lost or neglected dogs and cats in their care waited and hoped that someone would take them to live in a real home again, with space to run around and a family to love. But this, she said, was not possible, especially during levels 4 and 5 of the lockdown. During this period, this branch had to provide 1 368 dogs and cats with a minimum of two meals a day for nine weeks. She said the number of unwanted animals being dropped off this year was slightly higher compared with last year. “People are saying they can no longer afford their pets or they are moving (downsizing) and can’t take their animals with them,” said Fleischer. She said the inspectorate call-outs and complaints remained on par with the previous year. With the Covid-19 pandemic far from over, Fleischer said the impact on the SPCA would be a lasting one. “Our pressing need right now is to find loving new homes for dogs and cats which have already spent far too much time living in cages here,” Fleischer said. She said the cost of rescuing, caring for and preparing the animals for rehoming (vaccinations, deworming and sterilisation) added up to more than the R800 adoption fee they charged for a dog, and R600 for a cat. The public are allowed into the SPCA to view the animals, while the adoptions are by appointment only. Staff and trained volunteers, who are dog walkers, are permitted to walk the dogs. Msawakhe Mayisela, spokesperson for eThekwini Municipality, said all the animals at the Umgeni Bird Park and the Mitchell Park Zoo had remained in their cages and facilities. “So in that regard, nothing has changed for the animals at all. They simply don’t have contact with the public,” Mayisela added. Though the show animals love performing for the public, Mayisela said they did not necessarily miss the public as they appeared to be more relaxed. “Admiral the tortoise, in particular, is still happy with his harem and all are in good health. They seem more relaxed and content as there is little disturbance to their routines. Only the staff come in to attend to them.” At 109, Admiral is one of South Africa’s oldest tortoises. The zoo and the bird park remain closed to the public until at least level2 is promulgated. Ann Kunz, public relations officer at uShaka Marine World, said the dolphins, seals and sea birds were unaffected. “Our animals continue to enjoy the same high levels of care that we give them during normal times, and all of our critical systems have continued to operate.” She said she could not say whether some of animals, like the dolphins and seals, which performed at shows to the public, missed the crowds. Kunz said the operations at uShaka remained closed, with only the staff spending time there to ensure the well-being of the animals. Vet Sanil Singh said that the behaviour of animals remained the same even in lockdown and that the only change was in animal activity. “Obviously, now with the lockdown, animal owners and the staff are the only people with access to the animals. “The only change would be inactivity, since animals no longer receive excessive attention from the outside,” said Singh. He said that domestic animals were more likely to miss the close relations formed through human interaction, especially with children, as they were more interactive with pets. “This would require them to be prepared for an alternative routine, which would be beneficial to them until they returned to their usual routines in normal times.” As for the wildlife, Singh said they were more likely to take advantage of the drop in human activity and would probably enjoy roaming around freely. To sign up to become a dog walker at the SPCA, log on to www.spcadbn.org.za or email mary@spcadbn.org.za. A prospective dog walker would need to show dedication by volunteering at marketing events for a minimum of a year before being considered as a dog walker. POST