LIFESTYLE - WITH increasing pandemic-related stressors such as fears over the infection and death rates and the economic implications, mental health experts believe we are headed for a psychological epidemic. Added to this are concerns for the well-being of mental health patients whose conditions are being aggravated by the pandemic. Statistics indicate a strained society and health professionals are calling for increased awareness on the importance of taking care of mental health - on an individual level and more broadly in society. The SA Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) has reported receiving more calls for anxiety, loneliness and depression since the start of the lockdown. In a survey conducted in April, the organisation said most of the participants reported being stressed about a combination of issues including the spread of Covid-19, finances, relationship problems, job security, grief, gender-based violence and trauma. According to the survey, the main challenges experienced were anxiety and panic (55%), financial stress and pressure (46%), depression (40%), poor family relations (46%), feelings of suicide (12%) and substance abuse (6%). Psychological epidemics: The POST asked Suntosh Pillay, a clinical psychologist in the public sector, why we are seeing elevated levels of stressed mental health. “All major virus epidemics are followed by psychological epidemics. Our body and mind functions together. There is no well-being without mental health. “Covid-19 is especially difficult because it has created an unprecedented situation of forcing people into lockdown, triggering emotional, economic and existential turmoil.” Pillay, who is also a council member of the Psychological Society of South Africa, said common feelings were fear, anxiety, anger, irritation, loneliness and confusion. “This is normal and expected. We have to adapt to this new world. Adjustment issues are expected, and families are going to feel claustrophobic and annoyed with one another due to prolonged periods of confinement and financial stress. “However, if your mental state disrupts your ability to function and you are unable to complete daily tasks at home or work, or your loved ones start complaining about your behaviour, then you may need to see a psychologist.” He said there were specific groups of people especially vulnerable: refugees, the elderly in residential homes and single-income households. “People at risk lack family support, use unhealthy coping habits, live in poverty or have a history of mental illness. This can lead to relapses, depression, panic attacks and alcohol or drug abuse. “Serious symptoms include suicidal thoughts, hallucinations, hopelessness, violence, severe impulsivity, and mania. “The earlier you get help, the better your outcomes.” Increase in Covid-19 mental health patients expected: In a recent statement, the SA Society of Psychiatrists (Sasop) called on public and private health-care providers to maintain the availability of beds for psychiatric patients as they work to build a large hospital bed network to cope with the disease outbreak. The organisation said South Africa’s strained mental health-care services faced increased numbers of patients relapsing on treatment, along with rising new cases because of the stresses of the Covid-19 pandemic. It said many psychiatric patients were at a higher risk for Covid-19 because of co-morbid diseases and difficulties in following preventative measures such as wearing masks and physical distancing. Dr Kagisho Maaroganye, a Sasop board member and public sector national convener, said: “The twin peaks of an increased rate of Covid-19 among psychiatric patients and increased incidence of relapses and new psychiatric cases is bound to have these two distinct groups of patients arriving at psychiatric facilities at the same time and possibly in large numbers.” Maaroganye said accommodating Covid-19-positive psychiatric patients in the same ward as psychiatric patients not suspected of having Covid-19 would be unacceptable, for ethical and humanitarian reasons. He said psychiatric patients were far more at risk of contracting Covid-19 than the general population because of their high levels of co-morbidities. “The lifestyle of those suffering from mental illness increases their risk and the most frequent co-morbidities include diabetes, hypertension, obesity, smoking and addiction. These conditions not only escalate the risk of contracting Covid-19 but also the risk of mortality once infected.” Sasop urged the national Department of Health, provincial departments of health and private hospital groups not to use psychiatric beds for non-psychiatric Covid-19 patients in their drive to build a stronger hospital bed network, because of an acute shortage of psychiatric beds. Pandemic’s toll on health-care workers: Pillay said, as health-care professionals, they were chasing moving targets and building the ship as they were sailing it. “There is no way of predicting the future with certainty, and front-line workers are at an increased risk of burn-out and anxiety. “Our health-care system has always been fragile and was barely coping before Covid-19. “A national initiative was started called the Healthcare Workers Care Network to provide free mental health sessions. Health-care workers can call 0800212121 for help.” Pillay said he hoped the preparations for the pandemic would strengthen hospitals and clinics for the long-term but that the national Department of Health should create more posts for mental health professionals. “Simply hiring more doctors and nurses is not enough. “We desperately need more psychologists to strengthen the mental health care system, in line with the national mental health policy. “The pandemic is going to overburden the system and without an increase in human resources, we are not going to be able to deliver quality services.” Boost your resilience: Tips from Pillay   Sadag is providing support services via the following platforms:   POST