Durban - The eThekwini Municipality has extended its Covid-19 special payment relief incentive for customers in arrears to December 31.Calls from customers flooding the city’s customer service centres requesting arranged payment of bills, prompted mayor Mxolisi Kaunda to extend the relief, the executive committee heard yesterday. According to a report from the city’s revenue unit, the customer service centres have been inundated with customers asking to enter into agreements based on the Covid-19 relief scheme over the past few days. Council had approved the relief scheme to be finalised by June30. “More and more customers are asking for the extension of the period. Due to numerous requests for the relief, it is therefore requested that the period be extended to December31. EThekwini as a caring city must consider the requests from customers and assist. This will also help the municipality with increased cash flow since more customers will sign agreements,” reads the report. Exco recommended that the extension of the payment relief be approved. Residential customers are expected to pay between 10 and 25% of arrears and businesses to pay between 25 and 50% of their arrears. Customers with debt 90 days and older will see all accrued interest on their bills written off. However, all interest will be reinstated if a customer defaults on the payment plan, reads the report. In June the city had encouraged customers in arrears to sign credit agreements on condition that they pay 50% of the arrears (excluding interest) on or before June30. The incentive was only valid for the month of June. Opposition parties supported the move and encouraged those who could make payments to do so. IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said city officials had not seen the devastation caused by the virus and subsequent lockdown to citizens. “We support this extension because we continue hearing people talking about losing their jobs or taking huge salary cuts,” Nkosi said. The DA’s Nicole Graham said the extension brought some relief to ratepayers. “This reduction was necessary because not many people were in a position to pay 50%. This is a historic debt and not one accrued during the Covid-19 time. This will give people a chance to write off their arrears if they are able to make a down payment and enter into a payment plan, and not get disconnected from services. We’re very pleased about this,” Graham said. Bluff Ratepayers' Association chairperson Ivor Aylward also welcomed the extension. “Many people can’t afford to pay their accounts, but our city has to run and that requires money. If people get retrenched or take huge salary cuts, they should get affidavits indicating their situation. This is one way of making the authorities understand that you are indeed in a tight spot financially due to Covid-19. This extension will come as a relief to many people,” Aylward said. Daily News