Durban - Dayalan Rodney Govender, 25, had big plans. A truck owner, he planned to marry his fiancée Leesha Haripersad this year. The couple have a 15-month old daughter and Haripersad was expecting their second child in October. However, last Tuesday, Govender’s life ended unexpectedly when he became the victim of a possible hit. Earlier that day, Govender had fetched his fiancée and daughter from her family’s home and taken them to his home in Mariannhill. She spent some days with her grandparents and some days with Govender. The family had supper together and put their daughter to bed. As the couple prepared for bed, Govender received a call. “The person told Rodney that he had diesel to sell to him,” said Haripersad. “We didn’t think anything about it because Rodney owned trucks and a lot of people sold him stuff.” When Govender asked where the caller was, it emerged that the person was already outside their home. Haripersad stayed in bed while Rodney went outside. His sister, Melissa, who lived in the same house, also went outside. Haripersad said a few moments later she heard shots and her mother-in-law shout. “My daughter was frightened by the sound and woke up screaming and crying. I grabbed her and ran outside to see what was happening. “I saw Rodney on the floor and there was blood everywhere. Rodney’s cousin, who lives nearby, arrived and pushed me and my mother-in-law inside the house. He did not want us to be outside.” Govender had been shot four times. A bullet had grazed his sister’s forehead. Haripersad said she began praying for Govender. When she asked if he was okay, she was initially reassured that he was fine. “The paramedics then took Melissa to the hospital. I knew something was wrong when they did not take Rodney.” She said when she realised he had died, all she could think about was their daughter and their unborn child. “Now they will grow up not knowing their dad,” said Haripersad. “Our daughter looks for her dad all the time. We recently found out that our second baby is also a girl and he was so excited. A few days ago, he told me how he looked forward to growing old together and having our daughters take care of us. But now they won’t even know him. I really don’t know what we will do. He was the breadwinner.” Haripersad believed Govender’s killing was planned. “He had no bad blood with anyone. He was a kind person. The day before the shooting, someone came to the gate. The person said he wanted to sell something to Rodney and my sister-in-law said he was not at home. I wonder if that same person returned the following day.” Govender’s funeral was held on Saturday with a cremation at the Clare Estate Crematorium. The Reverend Moses Pillay, chairperson of the community police forum in Nagina Phase 2, said: “This is such an unfortunate incident. The community has been rocked by what has happened to this family. We are supporting them as best we can.” Colonel Thembeka Mbele, a police spokesperson, said a case of murder and attempted murder was being investigated. “Nothing was taken from the scene and no arrests have been made.” Daily News