Durban - THE 60-year-old minesweeper SAS Durban that had partially submerged at its mooring alongside the Durban Maritime Museum could deteriorate further if it was not re-floated soon, say experts. The floating display at the museum took on water at the end of August and partially sank in shallow water. Captain Justin Adams, acting harbour master at the Transnet National Ports Authority Port of Durban, said the eThekwini Municipality had engaged the services of a diving company to investigate the cause and to try to right the vessel. He said there were no concerns about pollution as the vessel had no oil on board. Terry Hutson, from the volunteer group Friends of the Durban Maritime Museum, said there were reports of a few holes below the water line, but he had yet to see a full report on the investigation. Hutson said the Local History Museum was awaiting funding authorisation before commencing with any work. He said the ship was made of wood over an aluminium framework. “The ship is sitting at the bottom of the sea. The longer it is down there the softer the wood gets, which can cause it to break apart. Unless the city acts quickly, the ship will be history. I am waiting in anticipation. If a salvage attempt is made they would have to follow the tides. We only get two spring tides a month. I have suggested it be placed on land. Rebuild it on land cosmetically so people know what a minesweeper once looked like.” The museum is closed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The last repairs to SAS Durban were carried out by Sandock Austral Shipyards (formerly Southern African Shipyards) in August 2019. Transnet National Ports Authority, as the port landlord, redirected further queries to the municipality. Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said an investigation was being conducted to ascertain what remedial action should be taken. The city was working together with Transnet Ports Authority and Southern African Shipyards. The SAS Durban is one of the last surviving “Ton” class minesweepers developed originally for the Royal Navy and later introduced in several navies, including South Africa’s. It was the first naval ship to be built for the South African Navy. The municipal website states that the SAS Durban is a wooden vessel, so this naval minesweeper is even more susceptible to the effects of the harsh harbour climate. Daily News