Durban - Malvern policeman, Anton Laas, has lost his battle with Covid-19. Earlier this month, The Mercury  reported that 49-year-old Laas who had fought crime in his community for well over two decades, was placed on a ventilator after struggling to breathe. Laas was a Warrant Officer at the Malvern SAPS' Crime Prevention Unit. According to his daughter, Danielle, Laas felt sick on June  and was tested for Covid-19. Three days later, it was confirmed that he had contracted the coronavirus. Danielle who is also a cop, said she and her mother were also tested and while her results were negative, her mother had tested positive. She said her father's conditioned worsened and by June 30 had begun wheezing and had a tight chest. Laas was then rushed to hospital and was placed on a ventilator. By Wednesday morning, it was confirmed that Laas had passed away. His friends and colleagues took to social media to express their condolences to the Laas family. Kyle van Reenen: "Rest in Peace Warrant Officer Anton Laas. Another battle lost to Covid-19. Yet people will still tell us we overreacting and its just flu. Nick Evans: "The snake community lost a great man today. Anton rescued many snakes in the Queensburgh area, apart from helping to keep his community safe from crime, and always helped me when I needed him. Such a sad, sickening loss." Mike Myers: "A truly sad day today as we mourn the passing of Anton Laas, another great man lost to Covid-19. This picture of Anton is flooding Facebook and so it should be. A great man, a great policeman and a huge heart. Anton, may you Rest In Peace and thank you for your absolute commitment to your family, friends, community and country. So sad that last night I looked at my last message to Anton on the 3rd of July when I wished him a speedy recovery and we all thought he would be back home soon and back in action, so sad it never turned out that way. To Anton’s family, Vanessa, Danielle, Jeandre and all, my sincerest condolences, thoughts and prayers are with you." Laas' death comes just days after the emergency fraternity lost one of their own. Basanth 'Barry' Mohan succumbed to Covid-19 last week. The 56-year-old was a well-known face in the Durban emergency field and worked for Crisis Medical as a training manager and Intermediate Support practitioner. In an interview with the Daily News, Crisis Medical's Henry Ladman, said Mohan quickly became an integral part of the team, which he led with passion, commitment and selflessness, while quietly becoming a father figure to all. "Barry’s passion for teaching and his dedication to emergency medical services was unmatched. With his memory in mind, and in his name, we will always be ready to help, always remember to smile,” he said. Members of the emergency services fraternity paid special tribute to Mohan in a motorcade on Sunday. As per the latest figures, SA has 459 761 confirmed Covid-19 cases and the death toll stands at 7 257. IOL