Durban - HABIMAN Bharat Singh, a Chatsworth community activist who tested positive for ­Covid-19, died at Life Westville Hospital on Tuesday this week. He was 82. His daughter, Sandhiya Singh, said he was tested for the virus last Tuesday as a prerequisite for a medical procedure he was expected to undergo during the week. He had been receiving regular dialysis treatment for his kidneys. Sandhiya said once the results returned positive, Singh began showing symptoms of the virus, including weakness, fever, loss of appetite and weight loss. He was admitted to hospital on Sunday. His funeral was held later on Tuesday at the Clare Estate Hindu Crematorium. His wife, Kogie, 81, was unable to attend as she also tested positive for the virus. “My father deserved more. For him to die alone, where his family could not even perform his last rites, is devastating,” said Sandhiya. She said her dad was a selfless man who always put the needs of others before his own. After Singh retired as a teacher and subject adviser, he immersed himself in community work. He served at the KwaZulu-Natal Blind and Deaf Society, was a founding member of the Mobeni Heights Civic Association and an alumni association chairperson for Sastri College. Singh recently played an instrumental role in saving the 105-year-old Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple in Mobeni Heights from being sold. His nephew, Anil, said: “He was a man who served the community without wanting anything. He was our leader, our friend, our everything.” Nirvashi Maharajh, honorary secretary of the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple, added: “His sterling effort in ensuring that our temple is still in existence will be forever remembered.” Ashwin Trikamjee, president of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, said: “He was a hard worker who was not afraid to get his hands dirty. He had an amazing ability to get people to join him and to bring out the best in them.” Denika Pillay, the spokesperson for the KZN Blind and Deaf Society, said Singh would be remembered for his contribution to the rehabilitation and development side of the society. He also served on the board of management at the Arthur Blaxall School for the Blind in Pietermaritzburg. Singh leaves Kogie, his three children, Sandhiya, Ravi and Anusha, nine grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. POST