Durban - Almost a year after the installation of the first baby safe - the Valliamma Cradle of Love - in Phoenix, The Mercury, Ramsamy International and FNB KZN Volunteers recently handed over a fully-fitted baby nursery to Phoenix Child Welfare as part of its Mandela Day initiative. The nursery, which can house at least eight babies, is fully equipped with an automatic hot water system that allows for boiled water to be readily available to make bottles of milk. It also has baby cots, baby changing units, cupboards and drawer units. Members of the public have generously donated nappies and groceries. The Mercury editor Yogas Nair thanked the sponsors who worked tirelessly over a year to complete the nursery. “This project was driven hard by Kovilan Ramsamy of Ramsamy International, who donated all the furniture and fittings. FNB KZN Volunteers came out in numbers to create a garden for the home and contributed to the painting and the donation of the hot water system. Thank you to all those who selflessly contributed to this project to ensure our abandoned babies have a warm, safe haven. “We also salute Aroona Chetty, director of Phoenix Child Welfare, and her team, who work around the clock to care for these babies,” said Nair. As part of Mandela Day, the teams donated groceries and treated the children at the welfare’s boys’ and girls’ facility to lunch and goody bags. President of Phoenix Child Welfare, Dr Muni Kooblal, said: “The nursery has a house mother and a relief mother. It’ll make a big difference not only to the community of Phoenix, but to any baby from anywhere, of any race. Mothers won’t have to dump their babies in a bin or a drain but place it in the baby box in an anonymous way.” Currently, Kooblal said they had three abandoned babies in their care. Kovilan Ramsamy said their collaboration with The Mercury and FNB KZN volunteers went back three years. This year, they saw the dire need for a facility to house abandoned babies in the Phoenix community. “Every other week we were hearing about babies being abandoned in the area. This was the perfect opportunity for us as corporates to come together and serve the community. We’re proud of this initiative as it speaks to Nelson Mandela’s virtues. This nursery is open to all, no matter their class or colour. It’s our service to humanity.” Ramsamy also expressed his appreciation to other sponsors, such as Granite Innovations, East Coast Boards, Press Boards and Paintec. Prega Govender of FNB KZN Volunteers said: “The Mandela Day initiative is close to our hearts. It’s no secret that Nelson Mandela loved children and we know he’d have loved this initiative.”“Often poverty-stricken, some people are unable to look after their babies. With the baby safe there and now the nursery, it allows us to give these children a chance to have a happy life,” Govender said. The Mercury and the Sibaya Community Trust announced its donation of the community’s first baby-safe during Women’s Day celebrations last year. The baby-safe, named after child martyr Valliamma Munuswamy Mudaliar, is aimed at being a safe zone for desperate mothers to drop off unwanted newborn babies anonymously. The Mercury