Durban - THE wearing of masks in South Africa is mandatory to protect people from contracting Covid-19, but a Newlands West grandmother wears hers for a secondary reason - to avoid the smell of human waste in her yard. Sheila Ramcharan, 60, lives alone in a five-bedroom free-standing home. She has tenants living in an outbuilding on the property. Ramcharan has been living in the home for 22 years, and since May the sewer next to her property has been overflowing, causing human faeces and dirty water to flood her backyard. The mother of three said she reported the issue to the Department of Water and Sanitation. “On five occasions prior to May, teams came out to drain the waste, but they were unable to do so. eThekwini Municipality then sent another team in June to investigate the cause of the problem. They did an inspection but never returned to sort out the problem. “The flooding continued. Between May and July I must have called about 20 times for help.” Ramcharan said she had to wear a mask indoors as the stench was unbearable. “It’s unhygienic and it attracts flies. We can’t open the doors or the windows. My age in combination with my diabetes and high blood pressure means I am more susceptible to contracting the virus, so I don’t leave my house. As a result, I cannot escape the smell. My children bring me what I need.” She said while some families were free from wearing masks at home, she had no choice. “I have to do everything with the mask. When I cook, clean and watch television I have my mask on. I feel trapped in my own home. It is so difficult to breathe in the mask at times, but I have no choice. I burn incense and spray air freshener to mask the smell, but nothing helps.” Ramcharan said she was concerned about her tenants’ children. “They are young and I’m worried about their health. At times the flies stick to the window. It makes me feel sick. I cannot even eat. All I want is help so the problem can be resolved.” Her tenant, Arlene Johnson, said: “We cannot breathe properly. We have to keep our doors and windows locked at all times. Even our neighbours suffer.” eThekwini Municipality had not commented by the time of publication. POST