Durban - RESIDENTS in Sherwood are unsettled after they heard that a home in the suburb would be converted into a care facility for Covid-19 patients. The property is owned by the IMA Baytul Nur Trust, which falls under the Islamic Medical Association of SA. The trust has allowed the Muslim Relief Alliance KwaZulu-Natal (MRA-KZN) to use the premises for its respiratory support project. The alliance is a co-ordinating platform for various NGOs interested in providing humanitarian relief. On Sunday, a neighbouring resident claimed he overheard two people discussing using the home as a Covid-19 care facility. The resident then sent a message to the suburb’s WhatsApp group administrator who alerted the community. That evening, residents went to the property to make enquiries. Shuayba Mahomed, a resident and a lawyer, said her husband, Naeem Habib, was present at the meeting. “According to my husband, there were two people present. A woman, who identified herself as a doctor, and Nazir Malek, who we know as the owner of a travel agency. My husband told me when residents questioned them about the facility, the doctor confirmed that the facility would provide oxygen to Covid-19 patients,” said Mahomed. She said they were surprised because none of the residents had been informed or asked for consent. “We are upset because there was a lack of transparency. If the neighbour did not hear the conversation, we would still be in the dark. We have many unanswered questions now.” On Tuesday, Mahomed wrote to the Department of Health about their concerns. “We want to know if all the requirements to start such a facility have been met and if all the necessary protocols have been followed. If not, we want the department to intervene immediately. “It’s a major concern, especially when you look at the increasing number of Covid-19 infections and deaths.” Mahomed said they were also concerned about how the facility would dispose of medical waste. “We have a lot of monkeys in the area who rummage through bins and tear open rubbish bags. What if the medical waste is not disposed of properly? This poses a health risk. “Also, if they do intend opening such a facility, how can they operate in a residential area? Has eThekwini Municipality been informed?” Mardi Rivers, a fellow resident and mother of two, said: “Even if we are given assurance about measures put in place to protect us, it would be completely meaningless.” Another resident, who declined to be named, added: “This is a residential area with many elderly people and children. My mom is 81 and my mother-in-law is 90. They are the most vulnerable to Covid-19. “We are trying to stay as safe as we can, as the virus has not even reached its peak, and this facility will make us feel more uneasy.” Solly Suleman, chairperson of the trust, said the MRA-KZN approached them last week. “We were informed that the organisation would like to use the property to offer oxygen treatment for those who are experiencing respiratory problems. “We agreed on the condition that all protocols are followed. The IMA, which has been in existence for the past four decades, strongly focuses on improving the quality of life of people.” Suleman added that the residents’ concerns should be addressed. “The MRA will need to address the concerns raised and give reassurance to them. There needs to be some agreement before the project can go ahead. “Right now, we are faced with a state of disaster, with limited hospital beds. Such services are needed.” Malek, spokesperson for the MRA-KZN’s project, said the alliance was a non-profit organisation. “We were undertaking a feasibility study on a property with the intention of providing free oxygen therapy to people with respiratory problems. “No decision has been made as we are awaiting advice from several regulatory authorities.” Malek said no service had been offered at this or any other property. “We are planning on meeting the residents to address any concerns that they may have.” eThekwini Municipality and the KZN Department of Health had not responded at the time of publication. POST