Durban  - JOHANNESBURG attorney Melina Charilaou was left confused and in shock after she found out she had tested positive for Covid-19 a second time in the space of four months. Charilaou, 25, initially tested positive in March after returning to South Africa from the UK with her boyfriend. “We left on March 13 for a holiday but we had to cut it short because South Africa had announced the national lockdown and we needed to be home,” said Charilaou. “When we arrived in the UK, I realised the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic and that the chances were that we wouldn’t escape it. “We took every necessary precaution. However, while travelling back, my boyfriend had a few symptoms and I was feeling a little flu-ish.” She said when they arrived in South Africa on March 19, they were advised to get tested and to self-isolate. “We went to a family home that was unoccupied and we quarantined together. At that time we had to wait seven days for our results. We were both scared because we didn’t know what to expect or what was going to happen because this virus was fairly new. “A few days into our quarantine, my boyfriend seemed to have recovered. He was feeling upbeat, but I still had flu symptoms like migraines, fatigue and a sore throat, which almost felt like heartburn. “I treated these with an antibiotic provided by my GP. After seven days, we were told that we tested positive.” On day 22 of their isolation, the couple were told that they could leave their quarantine. “We were in contact with the Department of Health and the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD). “We both felt fine and had no symptoms so we were allowed to go to our homes. We could retest, but I declined because I didn’t feel it was necessary as I’d made a full recovery.” Charilaou said that in April they donated blood and saliva samples to the Department of Immunology at Wits for serological testing (for surveillance and research purposes) for Covid-19. Then, at the start of July, Charilaou started feeling ill again. “I possibly came into contact with people who tested positive and my symptoms this time around were even worse. I had a postnasal drip, body pains, a sore throat and the sharp heartburn pain returned.” She said she called the NICD and was advised to monitor herself. “The person who spoke to me said there was no research to say that you could or could not be reinfected, and that it was safer for me to isolate and check on my symptoms.” Charilaou said one morning she got up at 4.30 gasping for air. “I couldn’t breathe. It was as though an elephant was standing on my chest. That morning, I immediately went in for a second test and I got the results later that day. “It was positive for the virus. I was scared, confused and in a state of panic. I didn’t want to go through Covid-19 again.” Charilaou said isolating for a second time – this time alone – was the hardest part for her. “You’re completely alone. You have to look after yourself and you have to make sure you stay positive. “I took my antibiotics, vitamins and steamed with Vicks VapoRub. I told myself that I just had the flu and that I had to fight it again.” Last week, Charilaou returned to work. She says she has been extra-cautious since coming out of isolation. “I notice that I’m constantly sanitising. If I need to go to the printer, I sanitise, pick up whatever I need to and sanitise again. “If I take my mask off, I sanitise the surface and then place my mask on it. This virus is a real eye-opener for me.” She said she had asked the NICD if it was possible that she had been reinfected. Charilaou said the institute advised that the second infection was a new infection and that it was highly unlikely such an infection was in any way connected to the first infection, in that a significant length of time had lapsed since she first tested positive. “According to the NICD, from research done in China, people who had the virus had still tested positive 30 days later. “Research has also shown that testing positive after 30 days is highly likely, being that the tests often picked up particles of the virus within the dead lung cells. “I never received my test results from Wits. However, the NICD advised that the reason for contracting the virus a second time was that our antibodies may not last longer than two to three months. “Therefore, the virus may become like the seasonal flu, where multiple infections are possible if we can’t form long-lasting immunity to the virus.” She advised those who had been reinfected not to panic. “People mustn’t be complacent and think that they can’t get the virus a second time. It’s certainly possible. Keep a positive mindset, keep taking your medication and get a lot of rest. “Many of us will be okay. We have a good recovery rate in South Africa.” POST