THE call made by the SAPS for the re-enlisting of former police officers was described by the Institute for Security Studies (ISS) as a viable plan to increase numbers at a time when the police service was losing personnel. Yesterday, the SAPS called for trained and skilled police officers who had left the service honourably on the ranks of Constable, Sergeant and Warrant Officer to re-enlist. This was due to the SAPS losing officers for various reasons, including retirement. ISS researcher Gareth Newham said the SAPS has been faced with the challenge of declining officer numbers since 2012 when there were almost 200 000 people in the service; today there were less than 193 000 officers. Newham referred to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s State of the Nation Address in February where he said 7 500 new recruits would be sought, but this was put on hold due to Covid-19. “Last week, the police minister said 5 000 officers were in isolation after they contracted the virus. They (the SAPS) are facing pressure, particularly in high infection areas such as Gauteng, Eastern Cape and parts of KwaZulu-Natal. “There are about 5 000 people who leave the SAPS every year on average and a couple of them wanted to try another career path. Given that there’s an economic implosion where 3 million people have lost their jobs over the past few months, there might be former police officials who might be out of work.” National police spokesperson Colonel Brenda Muridili said the successful candidates would be posted where there was a shortage of officers, including in specialised units such as Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences, Public Order Police as well as the Taxi Violence Unit and the Cold Case Investigation and Murder and Robbery Unit. She said officers who had left the service more than 10 years ago and those who were dishonourably discharged would not be considered. “Applications of those members who have reached retirement age, have left the service pending the completion of a disciplinary inquiry and/or criminal proceedings as well as members who have left the service due to severance package, ill health or retirement as a result of a medical boarding will not be considered,” she said. Forms are available on the SAPS website and applications close at the end of the month. Daily News