D Durban - WITH the upsurge in Covid-19 infections, many fitness instructors are at odds over reopening. This comes after the DA called on the government to allow Pilates, yoga and other fitness studios to resume classes at level 3, under strict and measured Covid-19 guidelines. Henro Krüger, an MP and the DA’s small business development spokesperson, urged the government to reopen studios to save livelihoods and to prevent more South Africans from being condemned to joblessness. Krüger’s argument was that such fitness studios fell under non-contact sports and were mainly run by women who have been unemployed since the lockdown began in March. While some businesses have reopened under measured lockdown regulations, Pilates, yoga and other studios had not yet been given the thumbs-up, Krüger said. “The owners of these businesses have not had access to a sustainable income for the entire lockdown period and they run the risk of permanently closing down their businesses, putting many more people out of jobs,” he said. Jayess Jayram, of Malvern, a qualified part-time fitness instructor, said not being able to hold her classes had impacted her financially. Jayram is a database administrator at the eThekwini Municipality and the breadwinner in her home. She started Zumba classes for women eight years ago to earn an extra income and to create a safe space for women to get fit and to interact. In addition to the exercise classes, Jayram hosts educational workshops on a range of issues, including gender-based violence. “For many women, it was not only about Zumba. It was about having an hour to themselves to share, to interact and to network with like-minded individuals,” she said. Jayram later roped in her son to hold classes for the youth. She said the lockdown had impacted her finances. Both her children are at university and her husband suffered a brain haemorrhage after an accident a year ago and is unable to work. In addition to this, she cares for her 74-year-old father who is a dialysis patient. The loss of her second source of income meant she could no longer retain her domestic worker. But with the infection and death rates rising, she suggested it was best the government waited until September to decide on reopening fitness facilities. “Under a controlled space, I think classes can, in time, safely resume. The virus looks like it’s here to stay and we need to find a way to work around it, to possibly combat it in some way. One of the ways I think would help is by building a strong immune system. This can be done by eating healthily and exercising.” She said her students often called her to find out when classes would resume. “These classes have become soul food for people. I am now looking to take the classes online.” Prathiksha Naidu, the owner and instructor of the first hot yoga studio in Durban, said she would not reopen until the pandemic had subsided. “Safety comes first for myself and for my patrons. There is definitely no way I will risk opening during the peak spread of the virus.” Naidu, of Musgrave, has been a yoga instructor for 16 years and a studio owner of Hot Yoga Durban for eight years. She said before the lockdown, her business was popular and she was able to accommodate 30 to 40 people during one session. But with social distancing, full-capacity sessions would not be permitted. Naidu said winter was always a popular season for hot yoga as heaters created a safe environment to practise the discipline. Fortunately for Naidu, she adapted almost immediately to the new way of living. She started daily online yoga, using Zoom as a platform to connect with her clients. The clients are required to pay before joining the class. “I am able to teach and connect with patrons now living in Saudi Arabia, Cape Town and Johannesburg. I have added three sessions to a day, which is easy for patrons to access. They can still feel fantastic and get the benefits of yoga.” Sarah Marshall, the owner of the Peach Pilates studio in Durban North, said she would open when the infection rate dropped. “We are choosing to keep our classes online for now to prioritise the safety and health of our clients and instructors.” Marshall said the lockdown had hurt the business. “We have closed our premises since the beginning of the lockdown, which threw us into uncharted territory. As a new small business, this was a distressing situation.” Marshall qualified as a Pilates instructor in 2011. She decided to teach the discipline full-time. “I found Pilates in my early twenties and I loved the holistic workout it provided. It was challenging but still enjoyable and it provided a great escape from a highly stressful job in finance at the time. I decided to teach Pilates full-time and create awareness of this truly liberating form of exercise which is impartial to age and gender.” Katrina Pillay, 28, of Phoenix, is a fitness instructor and supports the call for fitness studios to reopen. “With stringent measures we should be allowed to reopen – exercise helps build immunity.” Pillay quit her job in accounting eight years ago to pursue her passion for fitness. “I got into the fitness industry because I wanted to empower women to live a healthy lifestyle.” She holds pop-up classes in Phoenix, Verulam and surrounding areas. Pillay said during the lockdown it had become stressful to run a home and take care of a family. While she had started virtual classes, the atmosphere was not the same. Pillay said some of her students had indicated they could no longer continue with the classes because they were no longer employed or their salaries were affected. Deron Howard, who runs a fitness studio in Pietermaritzburg, said there was no reason non-contact fitness studios could not operate under strict health and safety protocols. By reducing the number of people per class, she believed the classes could safely reconvene. “The lockdown has made us lose a lot of business. Not all the members can attend online classes with the high data prices, and during this time some people have lost their jobs and may not be able to afford the class fees when we reopen.” Meanwhile, the United Gyms and Fitness Facilities filed an urgent interim court application recently, requesting the Western Cape High Court order the government to temporarily include gyms in the amended regulations under levels 3, 2 and 1 of the national lockdown. POST