Durban – AN EXTENSIVE police investigation has led to the arrest of a Phoenix man in connection with the murder of his relative six months ago. The car of Khulukazi Ndlovu, 39, was found abandoned and burnt in Molweni cemetery on April 3. Human remains were found inside the wreck, but the identity of the body was only confirmed six months later. Ndlovu had gone missing and a few days later the burnt car and remains were found. She had moved out of her Phoenix home and was renting accommodation in the area at the time of her disappearance. Her family had been unable to bury her because of the delay in confirming the identity of the burnt body. Police informed the family on Saturday that the DNA results had confirmed the remains found in Ndlovu’s car were hers. They were also informed about the arrest of the relative, a man who had apparently denied knowing her whereabouts for the past six months. Despite their suspicions, the family said yesterday they could not put their finger on what could have gone so wrong that led to Ndlovu’s murder. A family spokesperson, who did not want to be named, said: “We had travelled all the way from the Eastern Cape to search for her. Yet, (the relative) had played no active role in the search. He was the first suspect, but we gave him the benefit of the doubt.” She said the family was shocked at the arrest. “It has been six months of hell for our family not knowing if the remains found in my sister’s car were hers. It gave us sleepless nights. "Although a part of us wanted the DNA results to come back as soon as possible and confirm our worst nightmare, we still wished so see her walking through the door,” she said. Police remained tight-lipped about the breakthrough evidence that allegedly linked the man to the murder. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said a man, 46, was arrested on Saturday and charged with murder. “Following the discovery of the vehicle with human remains, an inquest was opened, but later changed to murder. The DNA conducted on the remains revealed that it was that of Khulukazi Ndlovu. The man will appear in the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court on Monday (today),” said Gwala. Daily News