Durban - A  police officer is fighting for his life in hospital, after being shot and robbed of his service pistol and wallet while on his way to work yesterday morning. Sanele Mkhize, 40, stationed at Maydon Wharf, was waiting for transport in uMlazi when he was shot twice. His niece, Nomfundo Mkhize, 28, said the family was shocked when a patron from a tavern informed them of the shooting. “We are shocked because everyone, the whole section, knows him. He is always laughing and a people’s person. He is not violent,” she said. When Mkhize left home yesterday, he said goodbye to his mother and sister. He said he was late and rushing, but made time to chat to his son. Colleagues from his station, other police officers and people, visited the family all day to commiserate. Brigadier Jay Naicker said police were investigating Mkhize’s shooting. “He was shot at and sustained gunshot wounds. He was also robbed of his service pistol and wallet. He was airlifted to hospital for medical attention. The matter is still under investigation,” said Naicker. Provincial secretary of the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) Nthabeleng Molefe said they were saddened by the continued attacks on police officers. “During the period 2019/2020, we have lost 72 police officers, both on and off duty, which is of grave concern to us,” she said. Molefe said police management should ensure that transport was provided to all officers who used public transport, as many had been similarly attacked while waiting for transport. “Management is taking it very lightly because they are not affected, as they have transport dedicated to them,” she said. Molefe also called for the government to change the law, so that those caught for attacking or killing police officers were charged with treason. She called on the community to protect police officers, as they were there to serve and protect them. In August, Goodboy Sibiya, Mdeliseni Mathonsi and Siphamandla Mathonsi were sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of Captain Dumisani Mhlanzi, 54. Mhlanzi was gunned down in his hometown of Maphumulo in 2018. He was also robbed of his service firearm. Netcare 911 spokesperson Shawn Herbst said reports from the scene indicated that Mkhize had sustained gunshot wounds to his chest and abdomen. When Netcare 911 paramedics arrived on the scene, they found the policeman lying on the floor in a critical condition. Mkhize was stabilised at the scene, before a Netcare 911 helicopter ambulance was called to airlift him to hospital. Mkhize was operated on yesterday. uMlazi ward councillor Thandiwe Zuma said she had received multiple calls from the community informing her that Mkhize had been shot. Zuma speculated that the 17-year police veteran had been shot for his pistol because there was a lot of crime in her ward. Daily News