Durban - POLITICAL parties and local government experts have intensified their calls for the government tender process to be abolished, saying the system was designed to serve private interests rather than empower emerging businesses. The tender system debate has resurfaced after Msinga Municipality was accused of abusing the system when it advertised a tender to supply beef to the municipality. The move has stunned opposition parties and created a publicity nightmare for the rural municipality. The IFP-governed Msinga Municipality put out a tender inviting interested parties to supply the municipality with beef stew meat for R10 000 for a period of 12 months. The tender will close on October 29. The municipality, which admitted to fielding numerous concerns over the tender, denied allegations that it was abusing the system, saying the tender was meant to ensure local communities benefited from government procurement of services. “The Msinga Municipality does not bind itself to accept the lowest quotation and reserves the right to accept the whole or any part of the tender,” the tender advertisement said. The meat will be used to feed community members attending the municipal izimbizo every Thursday. It is understood that the council pays R10 000 for beef for the imbizos, which are held weekly. Msinga municipal manager Senzo Sokhela said the issue of the tender, which has set tongues wagging, was being politicised unnecessarily. “I have fielded many questions about this tender and I wish to clarify this process. “Every Thursday, the council hosts izimbizo in all its wards, and normally it would hire a catering company to handle the supply of food for that imbizo and in that ward. “The council found that in some wards, possible suppliers there did not have the capacity to supply and decided to separate the food cost from the labour cost. “The council will purchase the food and the community in that ward will provide the labour,” he said. Sokhela said the intention was to empower people in a ward, the grocery stores in the community and the farms that produced beef. He said beef meat was the most consumed food in the Msinga area and the council spent about R10000 on meat alone at these izimbizo. He said those bidding for the tender would have to state how much they charged for their meat per kilogram. “In many cases if people are supplied in bulk, they could reduce the cost of the kilogram and the municipality could get more meat for the R10000 it spends,” he said. However, ANC leader in council Bongani Mthethwa was not convinced, saying he had called an urgent caucus meeting today to discuss the tender. “At the moment we cannot speak in detail. We were just shocked to see the tender on Friday. “We do not know what the meat is for. It could be that other councillors that sit in the different committees know about it. “We need to go back to see which resolution this was based on because at the moment, we as the opposition party do not know anything about the decision to purchase the meat,” said Mthethwa. Commenting on the tender, the SACP said government tenders fuelled corruption and were about the accumulation of wealth by private individuals. SACP provincial spokesperson Themba Mthembu said this was an abuse of the tender system, and as the SACP, they had been calling for the elimination of the system in government procurement. “This tender needs to be investigated, on what is its intention. It has nothing to do with service delivery, and is about accumulation of wealth and private interest,” he said. Professor Pundy Pillay of the Wits School of Governance said the process of going out to tender could cost the municipality much more than the tender. “For such a small amount, they could have just simplified the process and asked three companies to submit quotations.” The Mercury