Durban - Cars were set alight, shops looted and traffic brought to a halt in parts of Durban yesterday during service delivery protests. A C-Class Mercedes-Benz belonging to Reservoir Hills community police forum chairperson Pravin Gounder was set alight on Mountbatten Drive when protesters, allegedly from Quarry Road Informal settlement, took to the streets. Gounder said he was on his way to work and entered the M19 from Mountbatten Drive, where he was suddenly surrounded by protesters. “My vehicle was pelted with stones. I had to leave it and run for cover at a nearby business premises. I lost some of my possessions. I could not bear watching my car go up in flames. I got a lift to work,” he said. The Reservoir Hills area has 12 informal settlements. Gounder said ratepayers were tired of protests. “We have seen it all. This time around the protesters were intent on hurting people,” he said “Even the police had to run for cover. A motorist had been bleeding from a wound to the head. His car was also set alight. This is barbaric, thuggish behaviour. If you are protesting over service delivery, why would you break into the liquor and butcher stores? I have lost faith in humanity.” Gounder said residents were considering a rates boycott to force eThekwini municipality to take action. He said public order police should be placed closer to “hot spots”. Durban metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said a Toyota Tazz and a Durban Transport bus were also torched, more than 10 privately owned vehicles and a police vehicle damaged, and a liquor store and a butchery on Mountbatten Drive looted. Sewpersad said the reason for the protest was the removal of illegal electricity connections. Sydenham police had arrested 17 people, and they were charged with public violence. Reservoir Hills Ratepayers Association chairperson Ish Prahladh said it was a well-planned protest. He believed criminal elements from outside the area had swelled the number of protesters and caused the chaos. “It was a set-up. They knew who and what they were going to target. They damaged the ward councillor’s office on Mountbatten Drive,” he said. In KwaMashu, a group of residents from a squatter settlement alongside Malandela Road demanded houses. Vehicles travelling on the M25 Curnick Ndlovu Highway were allegedly stoned. The closure of Malandela Road and the highway resulted in traffic congestion in the suburbs of Inanda, Ntuzuma and Phoenix. Sewpersad said the protest erupted after residents living around hostels claimed they were not consulted over a new ward demarcation process. The eThekwini municipality has condemned the public violence, but had not responded to questions at the time of publication. Daily News