Durban – OPPOSITION parties in the Msunduzi Municipality were unimpressed with the provincial Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA) forensic investigations report into allegations of fraud and corruption at the embattled and cash-strapped municipality. According to the department’s statement, the report was sent to the municipality on Wednesday, and the Speaker has 21 days to table it at council. Details in MEC Sipho Hlomuka’s statement are sketchy, but it revealed former City officials and at least one former councillor colluded to defraud the municipality. DA councillor Mthembeni Majola said CoGTA was at the centre of creating crisis at the troubled municipality. “There are burning issues right now yet they decide to prioritise issues dating back to 2011. From that time there has been a change of leadership both political and administrative, and with all these changes there have been issues of corruption until now. “People who are implicated in creating this mess have since left the municipality. Why have they left these issues unattended from the period 2011 to 2016, which was under investigation? You can’t sit on issues and then nine years later after people have left then you start investigating,” Majola said. “It’s not as if we don’t have capable officials, it’s just that we are selective in dealing with political issues.” Hlomuka had assigned a team of senior officials to table the report on the forensic investigations into allegations of fraud, corruption, maladministration and statutory non-compliance at the municipality in terms of Section 106(1)(b) of the Municipal Systems Act. Ugu Municipality was also given its own report on the same transgressions. The Msunduzi report has exposed issues, such as the defrauding of the municipality of millions of rand by an irregularly appointed service provider. “The report also made findings on the complicity of senior officials in the defrauding of the municipality,” said Hlomuka in a statement. “These forensic reports are proof of our department’s commitment to good and clean governance. As a government, we are committed to ensuring that our municipalities spend each and every rand on the real needs of our communities. “We are fighting maladministration, fraud and corruption in municipalities wherever and whenever these occur. All reported allegations are duly investigated without fear or favour.” The IFP’s Thinasonke Ntombela said: “We have issue with the manner in which municipal affairs are handled by CoGTA. Administrators are brought in and replaced without any consultation.” Daily News