Durban - A ROBBER was killed yesterday at a notorious Pinetown intersection, becoming the second to die at that spot in just a few days. Scelo Sibiya, 28, of Clermont, was shot dead by a metro police officer who he and two others had attempted to rob at knife point yesterday. Metro police commissioner Steve Middleton said the officer was on his way to work in his private vehicle when he was attacked by three men at the intersection of Josiah Gumede (Old Main) and Anderson roads. “The men then attempted to take his keys. The officer fired a shot and the suspect was pronounced dead on the scene. The officer works at the training academy in Lahee Park.” Middleton said the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) had been informed of the shooting and the SAPS had also attended the scene. Ipid spokesperson Ndileka Cola said: “The investigation process is still at the preliminary stage. Ipid’s investigating officer attended the crime scene, the firearm of the law enforcement officer has been taken for ballistic analysis, and the post mortem date is yet to be determined.” Sibiya’s sister Mathabi Sibiya confirmed it was her brother who had been shot. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said an inquest and attempted robbery dockets were opened at Pinetown Police Station for investigation. Yesterday’s incident came after another robber was shot dead by a victim at the same intersection on Tuesday. Mbele said a motorist was stationary at the traffic lights that morning when he was approached by three men, two of whom were armed with knives. “At knifepoint, they attempted to rob him of his cellphone and tried to stab him. He sustained a scratch on the hand. He managed to grab his firearm, fired a shot at the suspects and hit a 35-year-old. He was declared dead at the scene. The other two managed to flee. Two knives were recovered at the scene. “An inquest and an attempted robbery case have been opened for investigation at Pinetown SAPS.” A video of Tuesday’s incident was shared on social media, with several people praising the motorist for his quick reaction. Facebook users shared their own experiences of being attacked at the same intersection. “I’ve been robbed at the same intersection three times, but was not as quick on the draw as this guy. Only once I got some shots fired off. Well done! Give the man a bells,” wrote Odie Versfeld. Brigitte Rouillon said it was sad that an honest man had to kill someone to protect his assets. “This man will live with the fact that he killed someone to protect himself. I wish him peace and no guilt.” Another said he would drive through the area with his “finger on the trigger” in future. In the video, three men are seen running to a white Ford bakkie. Two of them run to the driver’s side, while the other heads to the passenger side. The driver’s door is seen opening and one of the men then drops to the ground, while the other two flee in different directions. Daily News