Durban - An alleged drug dealer who had been plying his trade near a thriving market place in Mansel Road, Durban was arrested on Monday. Drug dealers should have no place to do business in the communities said Durban Metro Police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad. He said police units were doing a sweep of known hot spots when they pounced on adrug dealer. Sewpersad said the residents living in the vicinity were not happy with the scourage of drugs in the area. Durban Metro police seized forty capsules containing suspected heroine powder. The total street value of the drugs was one thousand rands. The man was charged for dealing in drugs and possession of drugs. He was detained at Durban Central SAPS. He will appear in the Durban Magistrates Court soon. The Mansel Road traditional market which is situated behind UmgeniRoad lures hundreds of tourists from South African provinces to sell clothing and other crafts and wares. DIFFERENT DRUGS CAUSE DIFFERENT FEELINGS AND PHYSICAL RESPONSES Drugs such as dagga, heroin, Ecstasy, Mandrax, tik and cocaine are illegal. Further, you could experience a very pleasant response to one drug, yet another drug could have a very frightening reaction B it could even kill you. Like any business, the illicit drug industry is profit-driven. Therefore, drug dealers use a variety of substances to cut drugs. Some of these substances may be more harmful than the drug itself. The drug you are offered tomorrow may look the same as the drug you were offered yesterday, but you can never be certain of what it contains. The only way to be sure that you do not ingest it is to avoid takingdrugs in the first place. Drugs can be swallowed (pills), smoked, inhaled or injected. You can never anticipate the effect that drugs will have on you. It is a mistake to think that experience increases your tolerance levels or that nothing will happen to you if you take a drug that you have used before. For more information visit https://www.saps.gov.za/alert/drug_awareness.php Daily News