Durban - FAMILIES across South Africa face an uncertain future as a growing number of people are losing their jobs. During April, May and June this year, 2.2 million people became unemployed. Officially, the unemployment rate is at 23%, although, using a broader measure, it is more than 42%. This was the biggest loss of jobs in a quarter since Statistics South Africa began recording the figures in 2008. However, the period coincided with the national lockdown which aimed to reduce the spread of coronavirus. Many businesses cut jobs or closed down during this period. Unemployment within the Indian community is growing. During the first quarter of this year, it was 18%. By the second quarter, it had risen to just over 26%. Among Indian men, unemployment went up from just over 15% in the first quarter to 19% in the second quarter. However, women were more affected. In the first three months of 2020, the unemployment rate among Indian women was just over 24%. In the second quarter, it was more than 36%. However, the Indian community still fairs well compared with other black groups. In broad terms, unemployment in the coloured community is 33% and among Africans, it is more than 46%. Unemployment among whites is just over 14%. The figures were released by Statistics SA yesterday as part of its Quarterly Labour Force Survey. Unemployed numbers tripled in Phoenix Aroona Chetty, the director of Phoenix Child Welfare, said the number of unemployed people in the community had tripled since Covid-19 lockdown. “Unemployment has always been an issue in Phoenix. The situation, however, worsened with the restrictions implemented at the beginning of the lockdown. It left many businesses unable to operate. With no money being made, staff could not be paid and businesses had to close.” Chetty said since April more people needed help with food. “We are receiving more than 20 calls and messages a day for help from people who were employed but were either retrenched or the businesses they worked at had closed. Those businesses that are still operating are using the minimal workforce so they can save on costs until their businesses start doing well again. Street vendors were also in need of assistance.” She said since the start of the lockdown, the organisation has helped more than 10 000 families. “The reality of unemployment in the community can be seen at the post office where people queue from early in the morning to receive the unemployment grant of R350.” Chetty said it encouraged families to start small businesses to generate an income because getting a job in the coming months would be difficult. Logan Naidu, president of Chatsworth Child Welfare, said there was an increase in the number of families asking for assistance. “A lot of people have lost their jobs due to the lockdown. They come to our office requesting clothing and food, among other things. “Our own resources are depleting but we cannot turn people away so we help as much as we can.” He said families who have four or five members were surviving off one person’s pension. “Initially, we all thought that people would start to feel the pinch under level 5. But it was actually under levels 2 and 1 that we saw the increase. That was due to the fact that people were not asked to return to work.” Naidu said due to unemployment, they have also noticed a spike in gender-based violence and child abuse. “We dread coming to work on a Monday because we have a line of women and children waiting at our offices. We’ve found that people have lost their jobs and are either taking drugs or drinking at home. “They are also getting frustrated and hitting or abusing their family members. We have 40% more cases in the past six months.” We are in a sinking ship Dawie Roodt, an economist, said the rate of unemployment affected everyone, no matter the racial grouping. “I don’t think affirmative action will play an important role in getting jobs at this stage. We are all in a sinking ship and it doesn’t matter what colour you are. But once things normalise, it will indeed be a factor.” He suggested that people create their own jobs. But that too, he said, came with its own disadvantages. “The state makes it extremely difficult to do so when it comes to licences and certification. As a result, minorities quite often enter into the informal sector.” He said minorities should organise themselves in tight-knit groups and try to support each other in business and socially. Erwin Rode, an economist, said the poor and those with few marketable skills would be hit hardest. “This is a long-term, worldwide trend that has been accelerated through Covid-19. Economies globally have gradually become more knowledge and skills-based. Entrepreneurial flair without the requisite knowledge or skills is increasingly unlikely to succeed. This is South Africa’s Achilles heel. “This spells more social unrest and creates space for activists to destabilise the country.” Rode said the practical problem was that South Africa was living beyond its means for a decade. “This created unrealistic expectations, which are about to be smashed as South Africans will soon, very soon, be forced to tighten their belts. “From a political view, there are few things as dangerous as unfulfilled expectations.” Job dilemma for all Sanusha Naidu, a political analyst, said the statistics were not surprising. “People forget how constrained the economy was before the lockdown. We therefore cannot look at the numbers in isolation.” Naidu said the state, which was the biggest employer in the country, would have to re-look at the way it implemented affirmative action in order to adapt to the changing economy. “We may end up with different interpretations of affirmative action and how it is applied. This will be as a result of pressure on the state to look at different, strategic ways in how they deal with employment.” She said people needed to re-invent themselves and think out of the box in order to survive. “People need to recalibrate their livelihoods and to take their skills one step further. Teachers, for example, can become more savvy in using online platforms for tutoring. “There is no box anymore and traditional forms of employment are slowly dissipating. “People will have to start thinking about how they become creative with their skills and look at start-ups. “But it is not only about creating job opportunities for yourself but how to become innovative.” POST