We, as residents of Reservoir Hills are certain, that you are aware of this informal settlement, its location, present issues faced by the informal community and the risks of violent protest action to the residents of Ward 23. As the Executive Mayor of eThekwini Municipality, the responsibility from a safety perspective, good governance and acceptable service deliveries by your Municipality falls squarely under your leadership. Actions taken by your team are well thought through and strategised in a manner in which you take into account all eventualities and occurrences into consideration in times of service delivery protest action. We were made aware last week, that your Municipality removed illegal connections from this settlement and that there was resistance from the informal residents of Quarry Road. We would therefore, knowing that such actions resort to protest action, safely assume, that the Municipality would have plans in place to ensure the safety of the residents of Ward 23. However on Monday the lives of the residents of Ward 23 were endangered due to the violent protest action from residents of this informal settlement. Protest action started from as early as 4am. You would have seen the media coverage and videos circulating of what occurred in Reservoir Hills. This certainly does not augur well for the eThekwini Municipality and puts into the spot light on how you manage and respond to situations like these that constantly present itself. The residents of Reservoir Hills requests an urgent meeting with you, the Executive Mayor of eThekwini Municipality. The attendees of this meeting with the Chairpersons of the respective Civic Bodies and Community Activists. It is of paramount importance that this meeting request is, to meet with you, the Mayor and not any of your representatives. We have in the past requested a meeting with you, but instead, a representative from your office, a Mr Sabelo was sent to meet with Ward 23 representatives and none of the pertinent issues discussed were resolved. Cllr Nala, from the DA, PR Cllr Sagar and your appointed Cllr Sabelo as a PR Cllr to assist Cllr Busi with the running of Reservoir Hills have all failed in bringing about a resolution to the issues raised and we now seek your intervention in a meeting with the Civic Body Representatives as a priority. On Monday, the residents of Ward 23 were subjected to violence that left many injured. A bus and cars were set alight, vehicle were stoned, including SAPS and POP’s vehicles and residents sustained injuries from rocks that were thrown. We were held hostage in our area as entrances and exits were barricaded by protesters. The Reservoir Hills shopping mall and other businesses were looted. Such acts of violation of property, injury to innocent residents and anarchy cannot and will not be tolerated by the residents of Ward 23. We request a written response to our letter by no later than 12h00 on Wednesday 14 October 2020. Yours faithfully, Mr Pravin Gounder Chairperson Community Policing Sector Mr I Prahladh Chairperson Reservoir Hills Ratepayers Association Daily News