Durban - PETROL bombing threats were directed at Clare Estate homeowners allegedly by residents of their neighbouring Quarry Road informal settlement on Monday evening. Residents claimed to have received messages via a WhatsApp chat group. Certain homeowners were accused of reporting illegal electricity connections to the eThekwini Municipality to the detriment of the informal settlement. A resident who lives near the settlement, and did not want to be named, said she did not sleep the entire night. She takes care of a relative who is 97 years old. She has been living in the area for 46 years. “When the settlement does not have power I am scared to put on my lights. I have also pleaded with the electricity department not to disconnect the wires because when they leave, trouble begins. "We have continuous power outages. The items in the fridge are spoilt. Each month I pay a lot of money for water, lights and rates. I do not get the service I am paying for. The bill never decreases despite having no electricity for four days at a time. I cannot buy a generator because it would be stolen,” she said. Sydenham Community Police Forum spokesperson Satish Dhupelia said none of the homes were evacuated after the threats were received. “We received the WhatsApp voice recordings. We did not know the origin of those messages. It was forwarded to the Sydenham police. The police presence increased and was on standby in the area throughout the night. "It is a clash between the city and the residents of the informal settlement. They are taking out their frustrations in a manner that is affecting other residents,” Dhupelia said. Ward councillor Xolani Nala could not be reached for comment. The ward PR councillor, Sagar Singh, said complainants' details should not be compromised. Quarry Road informal settlement committee member Menzi Mthethwa said they did not support the looting and vandalising of property and business. He was unaware of who made the threats. eThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said if communities had grievances they should use dialogue instead of violence. Provincial police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said the Public Order Police, Durban metro police and local police were deployed to the area since the start of the protest on Monday. “Although the WhatsApp voice note was not regarded as fake news, we were guided by the Crime Intelligence. We had enough manpower,” Gwala said. Daily News