Durban - THE Indian film and music fraternity, and fans continue to share their condolences and memories of SP Balasubramaniam (SPB), who died on Friday. The singer was on life support at the MGM Healthcare hospital in Chennai, after more than a month-long battle with post Covid-19 complications, according to IANS reports. On August 5, in a Facebook post, SPB said he was suffering from a mild attack of the virus and he was being hospitalised to take a break. At the time, he hoped to be discharged in two days. The Economic Times reported that  SP Balasubramaniam was laid to rest on Saturday, with full state honours, at his farmhouse in Chennai. “After the singer’s son SP Charan performed the funeral rites, amid Vedic chants by priests, 24 police personnel gave a gun salute and later the body was buried,” said the report. Background Popularly known as SPB, or Balu, in the movie world, he made his singing debut in 1966, with the Telugu movie Sri Sri Sri Maryada Ramanna. He was a musician, playback singer, music director, actor, dubbing artist, and film producer - who worked in the Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam and Hindi film industries. According to wikipedia.com, SPB had recorded more than 40000 songs, in 16languages, over a period of five decades - for which he earned a mention in the Guinness World Records. He also rendered the most songs in a day by any singer - recording 21 songs in Kannada for composer Upendra Kumar, from 9am to 9pm on February 8, 1981. SPB also recorded 19 songs in Tamil and 16 songs in Hindi, in a day, said wikipedia.com. Mass reaction Social media went viral with video and artistic tributes to SPB: India Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Twitter: “With the unfortunate demise of Shri SP Balasubramaniam, our cultural world is a lot poorer. A household name across India, his melodious voice and music enthralled audiences for decades. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with his family and admirers. Om Shanti.” Actor Rajinikanth on Twitter: “RIP Balu sir you have been my voice for many years your voice and your memories will live with me forever I will truly miss you.” Composer/singer AR Rahman on Twitter: “The voice of victory, love, devotion and joy.” Playback singer KS Chithra: “An era is over. Music will never be the same Words are not enough to thank him for guiding me to be a better singer.” Singer Shreya Goshal: “Such a great artist and human being, with an incredible personality, inspiring energetic spirit and so humble. I have been very fortunate to have had his blessings, having sung along with him on so many songs.” Actor Anil Kapoor on Twitter: “SP Balasubramanyam’s magical voice made so many careers of leading men, and I am one of them still can’t get over the fact that he’s no more, but his songs will live on forever Great human being and an incredible singer.” Local reaction * Mala Lutchmanan, a radio presenter, said: “The world is much poorer for the loss of the legendary SP Balasubramanian. A kind and gentle soul, who has changed the world music industry. My interactions with him were marked with warmth, concern, good food, advice and laughter - lots of laughter. “This soft-spoken gentle giant won many accolades and there will never be another to match his accolades. He had a song for every emotion and for someone who kept us entertained for five decades. “With his mellifluous voice, he brought about unity through his music. His music will live on, whether classical or film tunes. “I will miss him dearly. I feel like I have lost a member of my own family. SPB taught me what true humility is all about and his advice to me: ‘As long as we have breath in us, we must do what we can to help mankind’.” * Jimmy Moodley, a South Indian film columnist, on Facebook: “I first met SPB Sir at his recording studio in Chennai (in 1991). I spent a day hearing a few singers record that day. At the end of the day, I asked to take a pic of him (no selfies then) and proceeded to take the pic. “He called one of the musicians, gave him my camera, focused it and asked him to take that pic of us, as he grabbed my shoulder such was his humility.” POST