Durban - THE friends of Shabir Khan, a sound engineer of Azam Khan’s Sound Services, have described his death as a loss to the community. Khan, 71, of Mobeni Heights, fell ill and died of natural causes last Tuesday while being transported to hospital. The father of three was buried at the Brook Street Muslim Cemetery in Durban later that evening. Khan rendered sound services at various events, including concerts, political meetings and weddings since the 1970s. Satish Dhupelia, the director of SD Video Enterprises, posted a tribute on Facebook. He described Khan as being a rare individual with whom he shared a passion for technology. Dhupelia said Khan, who had come from an analogue background, had embraced digital technology. “He did the sound and I did the video and screens. We travelled this country together, working and having fun. I treasure those great memories. We enjoyed a great friendship “Last year, I visited him a number of times. We spent many hours reminiscing. He had expanded into audiovisual and was very knowledgeable. “I loved our technology talks. Many local artists will remember doing recordings in his studios and the care he took doing them.” Melanie Kisten, a dance choreographer and actress, said she had worked with Khan for more than 20 years. “When I launched my dance academy in 1996, I contacted Shabir to assist with the sound and lighting. He was well-known for covering all types events,” said Kisten. She said Khan worked at her dance concerts as well as on her stage productions, Who’s The Boss? and Kambakht Ishq 1, 2 and 3. “It was such a pleasure to have known and worked with an amazing individual like Shabir in the entertainment industry. “He also gave advice and pushed to deliver his best. To date, Azam Khan’s Sound Services is still my service provider. I was saddened to hear of his passing. He will be dearly missed. Shabir was a legend and an inspiration to many of us.” Veesham Maharaj, one of the founders of Showtime Promotions, said his relationship with Khan started 25 years ago. “Everyone would get Shabir to do the sound for their events. When I met Shabir, he had been doing sound at the ABH Fair in Chatsworth and I was there as well. “At that time, he was the leading brand in the sound industry. I approached him and told him that we had to work together,” said Maharaj. “In our years together, Shabir taught me a lot from a technical side. He was knowledgeable and was always willing to teach others. He was also well respected.” Khan had been part of a number of shows with Maharaj, including the Udit Narayan and Zee Stars concerts at the Sibaya Casino and the Sonu Nigam concert at Durban’s ICC. Bilal Khan, Khan’s son, said his family was overwhelmed by the outpouring of love and support. “We always knew my father worked closely with a lot of people but to see the messages and tributes from those people was heartwarming. In his last few years, my dad had retired because of his health but his name and legacy remained strong.” He said his father ensured he gave of his best at each event. “My dad also had a heart of gold. If someone was hosting a charity show and could not afford the fee, he still did the show and accepted however much the person could give.” Bilal said his dad also had a stern manner but he took pride in offering others, including show promoters, advice. “He did this with the intention of making the show better and his advice and tips worked. “The one thing I learnt from my dad is that once you start a show with a person, you build a relationship with that person, and that’s how most of his relationships with local actors and actresses and promoters were formed and lasted for so many years.” Khan is survived by his wife, children Azam, Bilal and Fatima and four grandchildren. POST