Durban - Cockroaches, rotting meat and dirty fridges. These were some of the discoveries made at eating establishments in the Pinetown central business district yesterday by officials from the eThekwini municipality and other units. The most extreme case was a store called Pak Shawarmas on Hill Street. At the back of the store, officials found a fridge packed with several buckets of expired meat while the store, which was full of customers, also had a cockroach infestation. Officials from the municipality’s environmental health unit - accompanied by Home Affairs Department officials, metro police officers and representatives of other units - immediately closed down the establishment. Further drama ensued when a manager at the store, who was pleading with officials to leave the establishment open, was asked where the owner of the store was. He claimed he was the owner and was then asked to show proper documentation for him to be in South Africa. It was found he did not have the proper documentation and was promptly arrested. The man then said he was not the owner of the store, but it did not prevent his arrest. Senior environmental health practitioner Thotho Mzobe said: “We closed them down because of the dirty conditions and cockroaches. The place has expired meat. They will have to clean up the place and once we are satisfied, they can open up again,” she said. Mzobe said some of the patterns they noticed in the area was that some store owners and employees did not have proper documentation. She said they were not allowed to work while holding a visitor’s permit. Muhammad Akbar, the owner of the store, said he was not always around to ensure that things were in order. He said he had been to the municipal offices last week to ensure that all his documents were in order and was surprised by yesterday’s raid. He wanted to reopen as soon as possible. Earlier in the day officials arrested another person at an arcade in the Pinetown CBD for not having proper immigration documents and an eatery’s management was fined for throwing food down a stormwater drain. As officials were issuing fines to the eatery’s owner, others went to another store which did photocopies and scanning. An employee who did not have proper immigration documents was arrested. Another employee made a run for it and a chase ensued. However, the officials did not catch him. eThekwini municipality Environmental Health Manager Nono Lugongolo said fines for non-compliance normally started at R1 000. She said Pinetown had a problem of bad buildings and landlords not following re gulations by subdividing properties. Lugongolo said they realised from yesterday’s inspections that working with other departments was more effective than working solo. Daily News