Durban - BLOOD, shoes, surgical gloves, coins and other items remained scattered around a taxi that crashed in Kilmun, between Underberg and Bulwer, killing 13 members of a family at the weekend. A 2-year-old was among those killed on Saturday when the vehicle crashed down a bank. Two people remain in critical condition in hospital. Zatholani, Mlekeleli, Njabulo, Sandile, Mathumisi, Nobuhle and Enzokuhle Mndali; Thabisile, Lindiwe and Balungile Dlamini; Nhlakanipho and Nompumelelo Nzimande; and Lindelani Sizake were named as those who died in the crash. A resident who visited the scene said the taxi’s roof was ripped off and passengers were thrown out of the taxi. He said a door and back seat were found metres away from the wreck. “Where you find items, it’s where the taxi threw them out,” he said. Zuziwe Mndali, 29, said five people from her home had died, four at the scene and another in hospital. Mndali said the family had returned home from a ceremony. “After the ceremony my brother, Njabulo, said he was going to fill the taxi with petrol and everyone said they would go with him. They went to get petrol and never returned,” she said. “The family is really worried. We’re left with dad now. He was not working and the two taxis helped us. Now one is gone and both drivers who were family members died in the crash,” said Mndali. Thonqo Dlamini, 51, said three of the dead were from her home - her sister-in-law, Nobuhle, brother Sandile and grandchild Enzokuhle. “We’re really hurt. Enzokuhle had cried for Nobuhle and wanted to go with her. However, they didn’t come back.” It was the third time the Mndali family had suffered such a loss. The family lost six members in a previous crash. Ward councillor Mlungisi Zikode said what affected him the most was the death of mothers in the crash, leaving behind their children. Yesterday, Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma; Premier Sihle Zikalala; Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Bheki Ntuli; and Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza visited the crash scene and the bereaved family. They committed to helping the family, assisting with the funeral and thereafter. Zikalala described the crash as a severe tragedy. The healing of the family would only happen if they received support from all sectors - government, religious sector and traditional leaders - he said. Ntuli said while investigations into the cause of the crash were continuing, empirical evidence showed that a majority of accidents on the road were a result of human behaviour. He called on road users to obey traffic rules. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said a case of culpable homicide was opened at Bulwer police station. Daily News