Durban - REMEMBERED nostalgically by residents for its rich vegetation, Greenwood Park has become an eyesore because of illegal dumping. According to ward councillor Bobby Maharajh, illegal dumping has been accelerating due to a number of factors. “Illegal dumping is a serious issue not only in this ward but in others as well. This has been centred around unethical business activity, residents showing little care when disposing of refuse properly, and the Malacca Road informal settlement that is growing rapidly. “It is unacceptable for illegal dumping to reach these magnitudes,” Maharajh said. “We’ve addressed the issue by taking it up with businesses which are guilty, but as soon as they stop then someone else starts dumping on vacant land. “We’ve made efforts to address residents but there are still cases where someone throws rubbish on vacant plots or in the bush.” Maharajh has called on the community to remedy the situation. “The community needs to come together and act. This is also a municipal issue because eThekwini Municipality must come up with solutions to collect refuse from the informal settlement.” Greenwood Park Ratepayers’ Association chairperson Robin Candy said residents had tried to bring illegal dumpers to book, with little success. “Illegal dumping has consequences because it lowers property values. “Even though we’ve identified perpetrators to authorities and the municipality, very little has been done. “What’s the point if we identify guilty parties and go to police stations and the municipality office to report them, and nothing gets done? Nobody is listening to us and our patience is wearing thin.” eThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said efforts were under way to address the issue. “The matter has been brought to the attention of the relevant unit. The area manager for Greenwood Park will investigate and address the matter accordingly. “We believe in having thriving communities, and a clean environment is important in ensuring that we have healthy communities,” Mayisela said. “In our efforts to maintain a clean and sustainable city, we urge residents to continue reporting illegal dumping to 0313118804 and be responsible by ensuring that their neighbourhoods are kept clean by taking care of the environment. “We also call on all residents to be champions of change and stop littering and illegal dumping.” Daily News