THE KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport is set to engage the freight and taxi industries to curb the growing number of road crashes and fatalities in the province. According to the department, the two industries have been involved in road accidents over the past week that led to the death of more than 45 people. Department spokesperson Kwanele Ncalane said this would be done as part of the department’s intention to review its road safety plans. “We are currently reviewing all our plans, considering the worrying accidents that have happened across the province. “We have started analysing the areas that are of great concern, with freight and taxi industries contributing to a high number of accidents,” he said. Last month, 13 people died in a crash involving a taxi, fuel truck and a truck, between the R33 and R614, near Wartburg in the KZN Midlands. Earlier this month, another 13 people from one family died when a taxi they were travelling in lost control and rolled off the road to the rocky embankment, between Bulwer and Underberg. In another horrific accident, 16 people were killed in a crash involving a taxi and a truck, on the R34 between Melmoth and Ulundi, on Wednesday last week. “These incidents have provided a very harsh lesson to us as the department. We need to do something about the accidents to avoid such catastrophic results,” he said. According to Ncalane, engagements with the taxi industry had already started. “These industries have to ensure that their drivers are fit to be on the roads, they follow the rules and get enough rest. It is of vital importance that we bring them on board to save lives on the roads,” he said. Ncalane said the MEC for Transport Community Safety and Liaison Bheki Ntuli would also hold an urgent meeting with all law enforcement agencies in the province. He said the aim was to ensure that they work together to reduce accidents and map a way forward. “Going forward, we are now using the experience we gained during October as a lesson towards the festive season. We also need to ensure the issue of integration, by bringing municipalities and the SAPS on board.” The Mercury