Durban - FORMER radio presenter Amra Maistry has been remembered as a stalwart in the Telugu community, following her death at the weekend. Maistry, who taught Telugu, died on Saturday. She was 80. Her daughter, Anandini Raman, said: “My mom was ill for a short while with severe arthritis and renal problems. Her age had taken its toll on her in the last few months.” Commenting on the tributes after her mother’s death, Raman said: “My sister and I had no idea the impact our mom had made in our community. “She was passionate and totally committed to the promotion of the Telugu language and it is clear now how many lives she touched.” Maistry was born on October 10, 1939, to David and Thosiammah Guriah. She was the youngest of nine children. “Her mother worked hard at the Warwick Avenue market to raise her nine children after their dad passed on.” Raman said Maistry may have been older than 80 because babies were registered late at that time. “She was born in Stella Hill near Stellawood Cemetery and then moved to Fennis Cowls in 1942. My mother thereafter moved to West Road in Overport, then Clairwood between 1942 and 1944, and finally to Mount Aetna in Warwick Avenue. She was a teacher in the 1950s at Hillary Primary School.” Raman said her mother was an honest, simple and committed mother and wife. “Her world revolved around her two daughters (Palanie Pillay and Raman) and my late dad, Jackie Maistry. In 2015, she became Aya to my son, Kairav Lazarus, her light and love and her reason to live. “My mom was always low key and remained in the background, while she quietly spread the good news about Telugu.” She said her family was grateful for the support. “My sincere thanks and gratitude to all those who reached out to us at the time of our loss. Thank you to Lotus FM, Zakia Ahmed and Vikash Mathura for acknowledging my mother and all her efforts to keep the language alive.” Johnson Naidoo, a trustee at the Pathmajurrani Andhra Institute (an 85-year-old Telugu language institute), said: “Apart from being a radio presenter, Amra studied at Pathmajurrani during its early years when it was based in the vibrant community of Clairwood. “She got her Telugu schooling here and she went on to teach Telugu and was involved in the eisteddfod awards. She was also actively involved in producing Telugu plays, which have sadly fallen by the wayside. “These plays were an integral part of preserving the language and culture.” The South African Andhra Maha Sabha said Maistry had contributed tremendously in promoting the Telugu language. Colin Naidoo, the chairperson, said: “Having established her radio presenting career at Radio Truro, being the first Indian radio station in South Africa, she later went on to present Sungeetha Nilayam on Lotus FM. She contributed immensely to the preservation and growth of the language. “Her lifetime contribution and dedication will always be remembered and our heartfelt condolences go out to the family and friends of our dear mother.” In a tribute on his Facebook page, Vikash Mathura, an actor and former news presenter, wrote: “When I joined Lotus FM on 1 July 1992, I was assigned to the 8pm to midnight slot on weekdays. I was young still 90 days shy of turning 21. “Aunty Amra was already hosting the Telugu programme. “In those early days, I would shadow her show, The Telugu Treasure House (ie: I would control the broadcasting desk and play her music, while she did the presenter’s links). While her songs were playing on air, she would share many stories with me of her life, her family, and her love for the Andhra culture (music, language, etc). “She was a passionate story-teller. I don’t think I ever saw her dressed in anything other than a sari. And she carried it with such poise, elegance and grace. She was a gentle soul. “I cannot recall ever seeing her being upset. “JJ Mathura and I will always have fond memories of her shy laughs and radiating smile. RIP Aunty Amra and thank you for your contribution to the world of radio.” Maistry’s funeral was held on Sunday. She is survived by a sister, Krupavathie Enoch, 92, her daughters, grandson and two sons-in-law - Percy Pillay and Captain Myen Lazarus of Sydenham SAPS. POST