Durban - NO recommendation could be made against embattled city manager Sipho Nzuza because an independent investigator was frustrated and did not obtain the required documentation to complete the investigation, the council heard yesterday. The investigator’s Interim Progress Report reveals that 10 allegations of impropriety were probed and the preliminary findings were that eight have substance in that there were breaches of the Municipal Finance Management Act by Nzuza. He is officially back in his seat despite much anger among opposition parties in the council. Nzuza was suspended for three months in March following an internal investigation into the appointment of an accounting firm to handle hundreds of the city’s disciplinary hearings at a cost of about R40 million in 2019. The suspension was extended by another three months after he was arrested by the Hawks on charges including fraud, corruption and maladministration relating to a multimillion-rand Durban Solid Waste tender. The investigator’s report states that eThekwini council resolved in March to place Nzuza on suspension based on allegations of maladministration and/or financial misconduct/corruption. The investigator lamented the frustration of getting documentation to proceed with the investigation, which currently could not be located, which meant no disciplinary action could be taken yet against Nzuza. “The reality is that the ball has been completely dropped and that the municipality has no grounds left to not allow Nzuza back to work. This is because the investigations that should have been completed have not been completed and there are no legal avenues left to keep Nzuza away from City Hall,” the DA’s Nicole Graham said. IFP caucus chairperson Prem Irye said Nzuza should clear his name. “We are very disappointed that a person who was charged along with former mayor (Zandile) Gumede is allowed back to be at the helm of this metro,” Irye said. Nzuza could not be reached for comment. Municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said Nzuza was legally entitled to resume his duties following the completion of his special leave. Daily News