Durban - THE Covid-19 pandemic will not stop Diwali celebrations from going ahead at King Goodwill Zwelithini’s Osuthu Royal Palace in KwaNongoma. Zwelithini will host the sixth Diwali celebration between the Zulu royal family and the Sivananda World Peace Foundation on Saturday from 3pm. Guests from Ladysmith, Phoenix, Chatsworth, KwaDukuza, Richards Bay and Johannesburg, as well as members from the Khoisan community, are expected to attend. “During Diwali there is an air of freedom, festivity and friendliness everywhere,” said Zwelithini. “It instils charity in the hearts of people. They embrace one another with love, and Diwali is a great unifying force.” He said that with the country made up of different religious groups, races and cultures, all South Africans should celebrate Diwali together as one nation. Such events, he said, promoted social cohesion. “All communities should respect one another despite our religion or nationality. This event is very historic as it takes place at the royal palace. As the monarch, I am delighted to celebrate Diwali together with my people of my kingdom of KwaZulu-Natal, especially my Hindu brothers and sisters. It is the celebration of brightness over darkness. “This is the best display of the democratic practices. We are implementing the right to freedom of religion and the right to culture which is in Chapter 2 of the Bill of Rights of the South African Constitution In religion, there is belief, customs and cultural values. All this is not only about tolerance but it is about acceptance. This gathering spelt out clear the acceptance for one another. Not only tolerance.” Ishwar Ramlutchman, a businessman whom Zwelithini appointed to his regiment, said Diwali was a symbol of hope for South Africans to unite. “We need to come together to celebrate the rich heritage our fore- fathers have kept alive since they arrived in South Africa in 1860. This year marks 160 years since the arrival of indentured labourers to KwaZulu-Natal. This historic event will also highlight the struggle and hardships the 1860 indentured labourers faced during those trying times. “I salute his majesty, the king, for celebrating Diwali annually. It is a clear indication of his majesty’s commitment to fostering good relations and promoting oneness among the citizens of our country.” Ramlutchman said this year, King Makhosonke Mabhena II, the king of the AmaNdebele Kingdom, would also attend the event. “There will also be cultural items from the Hindu and Zulu communities, a vegetarian feast as well as a fireworks display. Due to Covid-19, only 100 people will be invited. Strict protocols will be followed, meaning we will be screening attendees.” The king has previously hosted Diwali celebrations in Ulundi, Nongoma and Richards Bay. POST