Durban – CHAOS erupted outside the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court on Monday after the appearance of a Phoenix man accused of burning his wife inside her car. Angry people had shouted at Sifiso Ndlovu’s family as they left the court building. “What kind of women support a man accused of killing another, you have no shame,” they shouted. Community leaders intervened to prevent the confrontation from becoming physical. Ndlovu was remanded in custody until November 11 for the continuation of his bail application. Police have to verify an address in Isipingo he had supplied to the court as an alternative address where he would stay should he be granted bail. Ndlovu was arrested earlier this month and stands accused of killing his wife, Khulukazi Ndlovu. Khulukazi Ndlovu, 39, went missing in April and her car was found on April 13, burnt, at Molweni cemetery. Burnt remains found inside the car were sent for DNA analysis and came back this month confirming it was her. Sifiso Ndlovu, 46, a bus company inspector, said he has five children who lived with him at a rented house in Phoenix. He testified his colleague was prepared to accommodate him should he be released on bail. Prosecutor Drushanta Ransamy said a petition signed by 874 people, including Sifiso Ndlovu’s colleagues, called for him not to be granted bail. Under cross examination, Ransamy asked him if he was in good standing with his colleagues. He said he would not know who would be against him being granted bail and did not know the people who signed the petition. Ndlovu’s lawyer, advocate Paul Jorgensen, said Ndlovu would plead not guilty to murder. He said at this stage, the defence was only aware of the cellphone evidence that allegedly pinned Ndlovu to the cemetery. Jorgensen said Ndlovu was detained in April for two nights and then released. Despite the State claiming his life would be in danger should he be released on bail, Ndlovu told the court that his life was not threatened and he had gone to his home in Phoenix. Outside court, ANC leader Zinhle Cele appealed to the ANC in the eThekwini region to support the campaign against Ndlovu being granted bail. “The courts should send out a strong message by keeping those accused of killing women and children in jail until their innocence has been proven.” Daily News