Durban - EMANZIMTOTI beachgoers and fishermen have been urged to report crime to police, to assist in having law enforcement resources deployed appropriately. This comes after residents reported incidents of muggings on eManzimtoti beach, following the murder of a man during a robbery last week. A warning went out on an eManzimtoti community group, urging fishermen and beachgoers to be vigilant following the death of Sandile Sibiya, 28, on Thursday. Sibiya had been on the beach with his girlfriend when they were robbed at knifepoint. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Sibiya resisted and was fatally stabbed. Area councillor Andre Beetge urged residents who had been victims of crime on eManzimtoti beaches to report it to the police. “Report these cases to be investigated. Whatever descriptions of the perpetrators people have can help identify them. Even if it’s only items of clothing you remember, you must report to the police because they can start linking similar cases with similar descriptions and we can start building a case. Reporting can help the police identify patterns and then law enforcement resources can be deployed.” Resident Clarissa Strickland told the Daily News her 18-year-old son and 21-year-old daughter were robbed when they went fishing last week. “He said that day the fish were biting and they were late coming home. As it got dark, two men approached them, one tall guy with a scar on his face and a shorter guy. They made conversation and made to walk away. Then they turned around and headed back to my children and robbed them at knifepoint. They took everything they could see, including their shoes. My daughter says my son got between her and the guys and shielded her. They asked what else the children had and they said they had nothing further,” said Strickland. When the two got home, her son made sure his sister was safe and then ran off after the robbers. “He says he hit them and claimed most of his stuff back. Now we hear constantly of people being robbed on Toti Main Beach.” Strickland said they had not reported the incident to the police. Quentin Bonhomme reported being robbed of all his tackle, shoes, jacket, keys, and even the sardines he had caught. He said he fended off the robbers with a rod while his wife ran to safety. Community activist Des D’Sa said crime was a problem for fishermen on some Durban beaches, due to a lack of policing. “At the Durban beachfront and Blue Lagoon there’s lighting, so it’s not so problematic. The problem is beaches that are not well lit and have no police visibility.” Rishad Khan, of local group Grunter Gully Fishing Tribe, said beaches were becoming a haven for robbers, and fishermen were an easy target with their expensive gear. “I’m aware of incidents at Isipingo’s Dakota beach; there was another towards the end of last year at Winklespruit beach, where a fisherman was robbed of tackle worth R20000. I’ve heard of incidents on Cuttings Beach. These happen when it gets dark. They are armed, and if you fight you get hurt. There needs to be more police presence on these beaches,” he said. Daily News