Durban - TWO Durban women, who were killed within days of each other, were laid to rest at the weekend. Nomcebo Magudulela’s funeral was held yesterday, at her homestead in Hlabisa, in Northern KwaZulu-Natal. Magudulela, 36, was assaulted and stabbed, allegedly by her boyfriend, who fled from Lindelani in KwaDukuza, after the incident a week ago. Erin King, 18, of Newlands East, was laid to rest on Saturday. She was found dead with her 14-year-old friend Xolile Mdletshe. The two were discovered dumped in the bushes on Sigede Road, at P Section in KwaMashu. Both had gunshot wounds to the head. Yesterday, Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu was at the Mount Zion Church in Inanda, as part of an outreach programme focused on gender-based violence (GBV). This followed the recent spate of GBV murders across the country and, more recently, in KZN. Accompanied by the Minister in The Presidency for Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, and Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza, Zulu visited uMmlazi, Empangeni, Inanda, KwaMashu, Ntuzuma and Osizweni, which were among the 30 GBV hotspots in SA. Also on the list, that was released last month by Police Minister Bheki Cele, is Plessislaer in Pietermaritzburg. Zulu said it was a concern that females, young girls in particular, no longer felt safe in their environments. “The concern is about how fast we, as government, can create that conducive environment for our people and communities. The concern is about the infrastructure within the communities, the human settlement, the density of the people and the number of people who are in very small square metres. The concern is about how we, as government, can look at these challenges not only from a social development point of view, but from human settlement, policing, justice, education and health points of view,” she said, while at a women’s shelter in Phoenix. Zulu also visited the family of Xolile Mdletshe, where she engaged with community leaders as part of the campaign they had embarked on, from Friday until yesterday, in KZN. Xolile’s family told the Daily News they last saw her when she had left home for Siyanda, an informal settlement in KwaMashu. “The greatest concern is that Xolile was brutally murdered. We need to find the killer. When I looked at the picture her mother showed me, I questioned how can a person just decide, ‘I’m going to kill. I’m going to put them in a little suitcase and dump them somewhere’,” said Zulu. She said the availability of drugs and alcohol was an issue that came up while she was with the family. Daily News