Durban - A motorist has been hailed for his quick reaction after he shot one of three men who surrounded his car on busy road and tried to hijack him Pinetown. The incident which took place in crime hot spot where several people have reported getting robbed while in their vehicle was caught on CCTV footage. "I've been robbed at the same intersection three times but not as quick on the draw as this guy. Only once out of the three times I got some shots fired off. Well done! Give the man a bells," wrote Odie Versfeld on Facebook where the video was shared by Ethekwini Secure. In the video which has been shared on numerous community groups in the Pinetown area three men are seen running to a white Ford Bakkie stopped at an intersection on Josiah Gumede street in Pinetown.   Two of the hijackers run to the driver's side while the other heads to the passenger side. The driver door is seen opening and one of the men drops to the ground and the other two flew in different directions. Police were yet to give further details on the incident and what charges they were investigating, if any. It is unclear if the hijacker was killed or not as police were had not yet responded to questions from the Daily News at the time of publishing. "I drive through that intersection twice a day, I have been attacked once before and had an attempt on the second occasion. Now I drive past with my finger on the trigger. So far so good," wrote Strinivasan Addieah. Two weekends ago a woman had been among four men who alighted a minibus taxi and opened fire on police at the corner of Glenugie and Kings Roads in Pinetown on a Saturday afternoon. Police officers were alerted about a robbery at a business premises on Hill Street in Pinetown and on arrival, they learnt that the suspects boarded a minibus taxi, police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said. “The taxi was intercepted at the corner of Glenugie and Kings Roads where four men and a female alighted and a shootout ensued. One man was fatally shot, one managed to flee and three were arrested,"  Mbele said. Police on scene recovered three firearms and four cellphones, the suspects were taken to Pinetown police station for detention. They appeared at the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court  facing charges of attempted murder, robbery and possession of firearms and ammunition. Daily News