Durban - THE Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) is expected to be in Nongoma on Tuesday for the post-mortem of a man who died allegedly as a result of police action. Spokesperson Ndileka Cola said investigators began with the case in the area despite it being volatile as the community yesterday protested for the officers’ arrest. “Ipid officials will wait until the situation subsides so they can acquire witness statements. “Ipid investigators will be gathering all the necessary information and evidence as part of the investigation process that will inform any action and recommendations by the directorate,” she said. Police had allegedly acted on information they had that the dead man was in possession of an unlicensed firearm. He was allegedly at his girlfriend’s home when police arrived last Wednesday and demanded the firearm from him. “The deceased allegedly denied having a firearm. Police officers locked themselves in the bedroom with the deceased who was allegedly heard crying in agony. After a short while police left with the deceased who was handcuffed. “The police allegedly did not explain where nor why they were taking the deceased, they just left. As alleged, after a while the deceased came back alone in a terrible state, very weak and vomiting blood. “Realising that his situation was getting worse, he was taken to a local clinic the clinic transferred him to the hospital where he succumbed to his injuries,” said Cola. This comes as Police Minister Police Bheki Cele yesterday launched Ipid’s toll-free hotline in a bid to give the public direct access to the directorate. The longer police watchdog Ipid took in finalising cases against its own, the more it seemed that crooked police were prevailing, said Cele said at the launch. “The number 0800 111 969 is a toll-free hotline that empowers communities like never before. “Through this number, citizens will have direct access to a directorate that ensures accountability in the police service,” he said. Cele said delays in the finalisation of cases would further erode the trust that communities have in the police. He believed the hotline launch would bring Ipid one step closer in better positioning itself as an effective and impartial oversight body of the police. “It is also a bold move that aims to better serve the people of this country. As we all know, police misconduct, whether alleged or proven, has a negative impact on our society. “Any transgression committed by any officer of the law erodes the trust and confidence communities have towards the police. These officers of the law who choose to go against the very oaths they took to protect and to serve don’t have a place in the SAPS.” Daily News