THANDEKA MGQIBI Durban - THE South African Hindu Maha Sabha has called for the establishment of an interfaith leadership forum to address and reduce religious tension when these arise. This was one of the topics discussed during the Sabha’s interfaith harmony and social cohesion webinar workshop, that was streamed on Facebook on Heritage Day. Speakers included activists, professors and religious leaders, who each spoke on promoting tolerance, respect, peace and harmony. Ashwin Trikamjee, the president of the Sabha, said that in a multi-cultural and multi-faith society, there was a need to focus on shared values rather than differences. “Religious co-operation can lead to greater efficiency when addressing various social challenges in our country.” Trikamjee said an interfaith leadership forum would entail religious leaders debating issues, and finding resolutions that would strive for peace and tolerance. He said religious extremism and fundamentalism must be opposed. Trikamjee added that the Sabha was happy with the engagement received from the public during the online workshop. “Our Facebook live video received over 15000 organic views, shares and other engagements from the public, in the first 96 hours of publishing. That, to us, means it was well received.” Nalini Gengan, the chairperson of the Hindu Association in the Western Cape, paid tribute to the Indian indentured labourers, who arrived in Natal from India in 1860. “Despite their conditions that were akin to slavery, they were instrumental in promoting and maintaining respective religions and culture, so that we are able to freely practise them years later.” Gengan said it was unfair that the freedom of religion was still limited by other laws, despite it being included in the Bill of Rights. “The freedom of religion is constantly challenged, especially in schools and the workplace. Our people still need to fight to wear their nose rings, red strings, and have their religious holidays observed.” Professor Ashwin Desai said religious leaders have a responsibility to self-introspect and to be held accountable for their actions. “They are sometimes hypocrites who lie in public. They are not far off from politicians, because often religion has been reduced to how many people you have in your congregation, which translates to how much you have in your bank account.” Desai called for the celebration of Indian heritage and identity. He said a good way to celebrate would be printing and making Hindu books available worldwide. Ravi Pillay, MEC for Finance in KZN, encouraged leaders to always give a message of hope to the people. “Whether we are leaders in the social, economic, or political sphere, it’s our basic duty to give our people a message of hope.” Pillay said social cohesion remained one of the most testing societal challenges in this democracy. “The key component of this would be social justice. What we need to do is hold societies together. This would allow for fairness and equity in terms of access and participation, in the political social economic and cultural aspects to society.” Bishop Malusi Mpumlwana, the chairperson for the South African Council of Churches, addressed the relationship between religion, social cohesion and power relations. “Why is it that those who seek power will go to all religious sites ahead of elections? It would appear to me that the racial and economic power relations of apartheid have a more significant impact than religion today,” said Mpumlwana. He added there was a need to be wary of narrow political agendas that could lead to interfaith tension. Other speakers included professors Saths Cooper and Solly Dangor and Swami Vedanand Saraswati. POST