Durban - ONE of the biggest primary schools in Durban is fearful of Covid-19 infections due to the shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) and thermometers, and screeners staying away from work. Phoenix Heights Primary school has written to the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education raising safety concerns brought on by the shortage of key necessities to keep pupils safe. The Mercury has seen several letters from the school to the department, the latest one being on Thursday last week. Sources aware of challenges said the school management was very concerned. “We have 50% of our pupils attending school on a daily basis, which means that about 400 pupils are attending school daily,” said the letter. “The Department of Education has supplied only three thermometers for the screening of such a large number of pupils, staff and visitors as well. “The three thermometers are insufficient, and the units supplied are defective. One unit is not working, whereas the other two units continue to give us problems.” The letter also said there was a shortage of PPE and the department was informed “almost a month ago that we have a shortage of PPE at school. “To date we have not received new stock of hand sanitisers, liquid hand soap and disinfectants. We are in dire need of liquid hand soap.” It said the school faced a challenge with the screeners, who sometimes did not show up for work. “They have either been reporting very late for duty or, on some days, not reporting for duty at all. “On several occasions we have reported this, but have not received any positive response in respect of the workers reporting for duty on a daily basis,” said the letter. On the rare days that they do report to school for duty, the letter said, they do so very late. “Some of our pupils report to school as early as 6.30am. We require at least four screeners, which will greatly assist with the speedy screening of our pupils,” said the letter. DA education spokesperson Imran Keeka said it was irresponsible to compromise the screening processes in the manner described, as that would put all pupils, teachers and staff at risk. He said that all those who had failed to assist the school should be disciplined. IFP education spokesperson Thembeni kaMadlopha Mthethwa said they had also received reports that cleaners in some schools in Durban were still not being paid and had engaged with the department, which had promised to address the matter. Department spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said they would direct their district officials to intervene and assist the school. The Mercury