Durban - A CLARE Estate resident is wondering whether to continue providing meals to people living in the informal settlements around Clare Estate and Reservoir Hills after she was attacked during a service delivery protest on Monday. “I am part of a group that goes out and feeds these communities. But after what happened, I am traumatised. I don’t think I will be the same person again. I keep checking over my shoulder in fear.” She said she was on the M19 approaching the Reservoir Hills off-ramp when she saw the protesters. “It was about 6.20am. There were cars in front and behind me taking the off-ramp. I saw the protesters but I did not stress because the police were present. “Then I saw the police running. Other drivers were reversing, trying to get back on to the M19. I tried to do the same but some of us were blocked in. I could not do anything. “I sat and watched as the protesters ran toward the cars in front of me. I could hear screams and I saw people being pulled out of their cars and hit. One person, who was covered in blood, ran away. I was so afraid. I thought I was going to die.” The woman, who lives in Clare Estate, said two men tried to get into her car. “One was at my door. He tried to pull it open while the other person repeatedly struck an object against my car’s back glass until it broke. He got into the car and tried to grab me. I tried to fight him off but he sprayed me with pepper spray.” The motorist said she somehow managed to get out of the car and ran towards a nearby Shell garage where she called her family. “I was so traumatised. I could not do anything. When I was later taken to my car, I threw up. I could have been seriously hurt. It was as though they were out for blood.” She said she was unable to sleep on Monday night. “I see figures and hear the sounds of those two men trying to get into my car. I am constantly afraid.” An hour after this attack, Pravin Gounder, the chairperson of the Reservoir Hills Community Police Forum was also attacked in his vehicle. Gounder, who was travelling to work on Mountbatten Drive, said he was in his vehicle when he saw people rushing towards him. “I saw stones being thrown and I feared for my life. I knew I had to escape or I would be hurt or killed, so I ran. In my mind I thought my car is a material thing while my life is more important. I knew I could not stay in the car.” Gounder said he ran to a nearby garage and watched as his vehicle was set alight. “There was nothing I could do. I think in that moment I just thanked God for getting me out.” Gounder said he had been in the CPF for a number of years but this was the first time he had experienced such violence in the area. “It’s the first time I was targeted. I’m used to going out to such scenes but this was the first time I was a victim. “It is disappointing and upsetting because we are the same people who assist this community. We employ them and we hand out hampers and other material when they are affected by floods and other disasters.” Gounder said he blamed the city for what was happening. “The city is to blame because they are not clamping down on informal settlements or assisting those living in the informal settlements. They need to provide proper housing and proper facilities for these people. “When those living in these informal settlements don’t get what they need, they protest and target us. It is totally unfair.” Gounder said the CPF had met the leadership of the informal settlements and suggested they unite and lobby for change. However, it did not materliase. “They bit the hand that feeds them and that is disappointing. What has happened has changed the way many residents feel and I think it’s high time the city steps up and takes responsibility.” Gounder said he had submitted a letter to the mayor explaining the issues as well as the latest violence. Msawakhe Mayisela, eThekweni spokesperson, said the city condemned the protest action that took place. “We have an open-door policy for residents with grievances. We have on numerous occasions engaged with this community and told them to move elsewhere as the current area is not suitable for human settlements and it is difficult to go there and put in infrastructure.” He said the city had been plagued by a number of illegal electricity connections and started disconnecting them last week. “This is putting too much pressure on the grid and we needed to do something. As the city, we must maintain law and order. We are trying to meet the needs of the people but it is impossible to meet the needs overnight.” POST