Durban - LAND grabs have started on the outskirts of Avoca Hills and both residents and land invaders are appealing to the eThekwini Municipality to find a solution. Over the past two weeks, about 100 land invaders were spotted by residents clearing and pegging vacant municipal land between Khabazela Village, a low-cost housing development, and Avoca Hills, to build shacks. While the formal residents are concerned their property values will be impacted, the land invaders claim the site was allocated for RDP housing in 2007 but the municipality had failed to deliver. Vernon Naick, a community leader, said that on every occasion that the land invaders were seen, they contacted the Land Invasion Unit for help. “They must have come out more than five times in the last two weeks to assist us,” said Naick. “The informal residents are clearing land behind some of our properties. Last week, we realised that they were coming to the area between 7pm and 9pm to put up structures. We called the unit again and they removed the structures in the morning. A few days ago, (the invaders) blocked off the road and burned tyres in protest against the unit. “They did not allow vehicles to pass. We called the police. Residents are worried the situation will turn volatile. We are also concerned about the value of our properties. “We are working with the councillor to arrange a meeting with the head of the Land Invasion Unit to find a solution. We are awaiting feedback.” Resident Doman Rampersadh said: “We have noticed that residents in Khabazela Village, who have RDP homes, are building shacks next to these homes for their extended families. Now it’s spilling over to the vacant plot of land. The Department of Human Settlements needs to look into this matter.” He said he bought his home 35 years ago as an investment. “I’m now worried I will not get a return on my investment. This is not fair to residents. We pay our rates.” Rakesh Mohanar lives with his children and mother. “If this issue is not resolved, I’m afraid they will cause more disruptions like continue with protests and block the roads. In addition, they will not have access to ablution facilities, running water and electricity. This will surely impact on us, especially if there are illegal electricity connections.” Njabulo Buthelezi represents the community from Khabazela Village. “The land was supposed to be an extension of the village. We were promised RDP homes on that plot of land in 2007. Those extended families living in the village would be the ones allocated to homes. But since then nothing has materialised.” Buthelezi said they were trying to get answers from the municipality through their councillor but they were allegedly being ignored. “We were previously told that the municipality does not have money to complete the project. We then asked the municipality to give us the land and we would build. All the municipality needed was to build us a proper road, provide water and electricity meters, and proper sanitation. But again, we were ignored.” He said with no feedback from the municipality, they decided to take the land for themselves. “Life is hard. We have five members of a family sharing a small one-room home. Children are sleeping in the kitchen and grannies on the floor. This is not right. We want answers.” Pete Graham, DA councillor for the area, said he called and submitted numerous emails to the municipality but had not received a response. “The eThekwini Municipality is faced with a huge backlog when it comes to housing. People have been waiting for 20 years or more for a home. The land invaders are frustrated because of the empty promises and they want to take over the land. “The municipality needs to address these issues. We will continue to challenge them on finding a resolution.” Mbulelo Baloyi, spokesperson for the MEC of the Department of Human Settlements and Public Works in KZN, said housing developments of any nature were the sole responsibility of the municipality concerned. “We call it the housing sector plan of the municipal integrated development plan. The provincial Department of Human Settlements provides funding to municipalities, including eThekwini Municipality. “The funding is based on submitted requests and business plans. If funding is available, the provincial department then approves such a project.” Baloyi said the department was not aware of the threat to invade such vacant land. “But between us as the Department of Human Settlements and eThekwini Municipality, we have a monitoring capacity to prevent such incipient land invasion to take place, with eThekwini Municipality having a fully-fledged full-time anti-Land Invasion Unit within its security management section.” The eThekwini Municipality had not commented at the time of publication. Court Rules Against City THE Western Cape High Court recently granted an interim interdict barring the City of Cape Town from removing land invaders from public land. This was after the South African Human Rights Commission and the EFF went to court - following the eviction of Bulelani Qolani from his shack in Khayelitsha in July while he was undressed. According to a report by Africa News Agency in August, Judge Yasmin Meer confirmed that the City and its anti-land invasion unit were interdicted from demolishing or evicting anybody from any dwelling. This was while South Africa’s national state of disaster relating to the Covid-19 pandemic was in place, preventing evictions unless they had first obtained a court order. Should officials be in possession of a court order, they had to act in a manner that protected the dignity of those whose dwellings were being demolished. The City, however, argued that the ruling had set a dangerous precedent for all landowners if left unchallenged. It reported that the interdict would make it almost impossible for landowners to protect their property from unlawful occupation and to prevent people from establishing homes, albeit unlawfully, on the property of others. POST