Durban - AN INVESTIGATION is under way by police as to how a SANDF Reserve Signal Unit member died metres away from his home in Phoenix. Able seaman Yugen Soobramoney, 49, was preparing to be drafted for work with the SANDF in Cape Town. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Soobramoney was found dead on Sunday near the roadside at 1.30am on Rainham Drive with no injuries. His mother, Radha Reddy, who was helping him pack, now has the daunting task of planning his funeral this week. She is assisted by her three daughters. Reddy said her son, who lived with her, often socialised with his friends in the vicinity. “I heard some of the boys calling out for me from the roadside. When I came to the window they told me to come downstairs. At first, I shrugged it off as a nuisance but then they told me the police were there. Something had happened to Yugen. My son was a strong and healthy person. His death is something I will not get over.” Reddy was awaiting the post-mortem results to determine the cause of death. She said police are seeking those who might have witnessed an altercation taking place on Rainham Road. She said his gold chain, a gold ring and his cellphone were missing. Soobramoney has a 7-year-old son who lives in Cape Town. “I would like to dress him in his Navy attire for the funeral. I cannot come to terms with his death,” Reddy said. Slovo Tactical Support Unit director Kevin Singh said a passer-by thought it was a log on the side of the road but when he got closer he noticed it was a human being. “Yugen was my good friend. He was in good spirits upon hearing he was being redrafted. I suspect foul play. We are working with police to find out what transpired,” he said. Soobramoney joined the SANDF in 1988. He became part of the SAS Jalsena unit in Durban. He was a signalman and later part of the protection services at the Durban naval base between 1988 and 1990. He became part of the national reserve. He was drafted to 84 Signal Unit. All volunteers held civilian jobs. Soobramoney was a carpenter. From 1990 to 2001 he was a general worker for Key Delta in Pinetown. Between 2001 and 2007 he was drafted to the SA Navy to set up satellite stations and provide relay stations for aerial stations. Police are investigating the circumstances around the incident. Daily News