Durban - Residents from The Association for the Aged’s (Tafta) John Dunn House will be able to have face-to-face interaction with family and friends in a new visitor pod that has been installed on the premises. The visitor pod, which is separate from the old-age home, has a clear glass screen between the resident and visitors with a telephone intercom to communicate. This allows for interaction without the fear of Covid-19. Tafta chief executive Femada Shamam said with its buildings still being locked down, the residents were isolated from families, and while some were okay with using digital platforms to communicate, others were not. Shamam said it was important for Tafta to find a way to reunite the residents with their families. “To isolate older people from the rest of the world during the pandemic was the most difficult trial we had to face as an organisation that bases its model of care on challenging helplessness, loneliness and boredom,” she said. Shamam said a few residents attended the unveiling of the R10000 visitor pod which was designed and co-sponsored by Ayoba Board and Accessories, and Old Mutual. “They expressed joy at the possibility that they could see their families and have a conversation without their masks,” said Shamam. She said the fact that they were in the same physical space while being kept safe made a big difference. Shamam said family members could call Tafta and schedule a one- hour slot to visit residents, with a maximum of two visitors at a time. “People would have to keep to the appointments,” she said. She said the pod would be compliant with Covid-19 safety regulations and would be sanitised between visits. Ayoba chief executive Shaun Mohanlall said the design underwent various tests to ensure the space allowed for proper ventilation. “The team looked at meeting the objectives of a safe visit, with the additional consideration to providing an intimate space for reunions,” he said. Tafta council member and Old Mutual marketing executive Charmain Shandu said the project resonated with the company’s community values. Alison Vezasie said visiting her sister, Terry Gabin, 64, was a relief. “We saw each other weekly prior to the lockdown. To have a means to reconnect physically again is wonderful,” said Vezasie. Gabin said: “It’s such a joy to visit again.” Shamam said if the pod was successful, they would seek funding for similar pods to be installed at other frail-care centres. The Mercury