Durban - TWO sisters lost their sons in a car accident on Sunday on the Old North Coast Road. Brothers Mynolin Chetty, 29, and Kamlin, 24, and their cousin, Sivesh Pillay, 25, were involved in a collision with another vehicle near the R102 in Phoenix. Leon Fourie, of Life Response, said the three relatives were trapped in their car and died at the scene. He said the occupants of the other vehicle sustained moderate injuries and were treated at the scene before being taken to hospital. Pillay’s mother, Simla, of Johannesburg, said: “I cannot accept what has happened. My family and I arrived in Durban on Thursday to attend my brother’s one-year death ceremony in Chatsworth. On Sunday morning, my sister Julie, who is Mynolin and Kamlin’s mother, and I went early to the ceremony with her youngest son, Tymolin. “The boys and Sivesh said they would come later. My husband said he would fetch them but the boys said they had some things to do. But they never showed up.” She said she repeatedly called Sivesh on his cellphone but there was no answer. The brothers’ cellphones were switched off. “I got worried because Sivesh always answers his phone, but I knew he was safe with his cousins. Julie eventually left the prayer, and my daughters went with her to her home in Phoenix. “My daughter then called an hour later to say she wanted to go home. I did not understand why she said that. When I arrived at Julie’s home, the police were parked outside. I became frantic. Julie then broke the news to me.” Simla said Sivesh, who worked at a tax company and also lived in Johannesburg, had a 2-year-old daughter. Julie said: “In 2005, I lost my husband and I raised my sons alone. They have been my pillars of strength. Mynolin worked in a call centre and Kamlin started his own home-based mechanic business. I feel lost without my boys.” She said Tymolin, 20, was trying to be brave and strong for her. “But deep down, we know he is hurting.” As the travel restrictions were eased, she said the boys often spoke about going on a cruise to Mauritius. “They were saving and were looking for travel specials, then this happened. I don’t know how I’m going to get over this. I am hurting for my children.” All three boys will be cremated at the Clare Estate Crematorium today. Parbhoo Sewpersad, metro police spokesperson, said the cause of the collision was being investigated. POST 