Durban - Relatives of four people, including two children, who died when their informal dwelling was razed by a fire in Newlands West yesterday, are still coming to grips with the incident. Lundokuhle Mlaba, 24, and her niece and nephew Nasipi Mlaba, 5, and Swazi Mlaba, 2, died in the fire. A man known to her, Nkosi Vumile Shangase, 38, of Umzimkulu, also died. They were renting the informal dwelling from Nokwanda Bhengu, who also lived on the property. Bhengu said she was asleep when she heard screams for help from neighbours and other tenants. “I do not know what caused the fire. The fire grew big quickly. Someone cut a main water pipe running through the property. We used the water to extinguish the flames. Residents tried to kick the door in to try to get to those inside but the flames were high. I am heartsore that this tragedy had to take place at my doorstep,” Bhengu said. Some of the Shangase family were at the scene yesterday. The children’s grandmother, Joyce Mlaba, who lives nearby, was also in a state of shock. Both declined to comment. Lindo Gazu, a close friend of Shangase, said he was still coming to terms with what had happened. He had been with them the previous night. Life Response 24/7 spokesperson Leon Fourie said paramedics responded to a call that people were trapped inside a dwelling that was on fire. Fourie said when they arrived the eThekweni fire department had already extinguished the fire. Fourie said SAPS Search and Rescue and SAPS K9 Search and Rescue members were called out to recover the burnt bodies from the dwelling. Durban North Fire Department Divisional Commander Jesse Yasudas said the fire was extinguished prior to their arrival at 3.25am. The cause of the fire was unknown. “It was quite a tragic incident. The dwelling was behind another house.” Residents managed to prevent the fire from spreading to other homes nearby. The burnt remains stood out as a stark reminder of the tragedy. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed that four people had died in the fire. Mbele also said the cause of fire was still unknown. Daily News