Durban - JUST two weeks after celebrating his son’s marriage proposal, a Durban father watched as he died trying to apprehend robbers fleeing a crime scene yesterday. Salesh Ramluckhan, 25, will be cremated at the Clare Estate Crematorium today. Private security company Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) spokesperson Prem Balram said Salesh tried to stop a robber and was stabbed in the chest. He died at Quintham Place in Phoenix, at 1.30am. According to his father Ashwin Ramluckhan, a robbery had taken place on an adjoining street and the owner had fired several shots. Salesh had just returned from work at a call centre. “The robbers wore balaclavas. They ran past my home. My sons Shikar and Salesh ran after them. Salesh grabbed one of them further up the road. The robber turned around and stuck a screwdriver into his chest. “Salesh told Shikar to run home and that he had been stabbed. He tried to prevent his brother from going near the robbers in case he was also stabbed. He told Shikar: ‘They have knives! Run!’” Ramluckhan said. Salesh collapsed on a verge about 100m from his home. “I was walking towards my son when he died. We want the killer to be found,” he said, adding that Salesh’s proposal to his girlfriend had been accepted two weeks ago. “He was supposed to get married in November 2021,” Ramluckhan said. Balram said Salesh could have been stabbed with a knife or screwdriver. The robbers are still at large. Salesh’s cousin Anusha Bhagwandin said he was a helpful person. She said they shared their last Raksha Bandhan - a tradition where sisters tie a protective thread around the right wrist of their brothers - together in August. “My sister and I took him as a brother. He was our light, our everything. From the time of the proposal, he created an atmosphere of joy and happiness. We could not wait for his wedding. We have lost a gem,” she said. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said a case of murder has been opened at Phoenix police station. Daily News