THULASIZWE NKOMO Durban – THE Zwelisha community in Bergville was devastated after two teenage girls drowned while swimming at Woodstock Dam on Sunday. Mawande Zikode, 11, and Nokuphila Zondo, 14, drowned while swimming with friends. Apparently, it was Mawande who got into difficulties and called for help. Nokuphila then jumped in to help her friend and classmate.   While Nokuphila, who was the oldest in the group, tried to help Mawande, they battled to swim and drowned. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed the incident, saying Ematsheni police were investigating. An inquest docket has been opened. “It is alleged that the victims were swimming at Woodstock Dam when they got into difficulty and drowned. “The bodies were recovered by the police officers from the search and rescue unit. The matter is still under investigation,” said Gwala.   Mawande’s uncle, Sakhile Zikode, said they were unaware the children were going to swim at the dam, about 500m away from their home. Zikode said they were at home in the morning, when a neighbour’s child alerted them of the incident. He said they immediately rushed to the scene and when they arrived, police and rescue services were already searching for the pair. “We stood there for hours while waiting for the divers to come back with them. Eventually, they managed to retrieve their bodies at about 5pm. “We were not aware that the children were frequently going to the dam for a swim, however, due to the hot sunny weather, we think the children were prompted to go to the dam,” he said. Zikode said they were saddened by the incident and that Mawande was a respectful child. “It is very sad to lose a child no matter the circumstances, Mawande was a child full of respect,” said Zikode. Nokuphila’s aunt, Ntobeko Zondo, said the incident had left the family devastated. She said had they known the children had been going for a swim at the dam, they would not have allowed it. “When they told us that we must rush to the dam as there had been a drowning incident, I was hoping that Nokuphila was alive. “I also believed that until I got to the scene and was told that she is one of the two who drowned. “My heart just stopped beating for a moment. After a long wait, I gave up hope of her returning alive. “We are deeply hurt by the passing of the children at such an early age,” said Zondo. Ward councillor Khulekani Hadebe, warned parents to be extra vigilant with their children’s whereabouts at all times. “We have had incidents where children go missing and others get raped while they had gone to play. “That is why it is of vital importance to maintain constant supervision of where the children are,” he said. KZN social development spokesperson, Mhlabunzima Memela, said it was unfortunate the children had to lose their lives so painfully. Memela said the department would encourage communities to ensure children refrained from swimming without the supervision of an older person. “We send our heartfelt condolences to the affected families following this unfortunate incident and we have noted that every year during the hot season we lose a lot of lives of young people,” said Memela. Memela said the department would send social workers to support the family. The Mercury