Durban - THE Department of Education said yesterday it was happy with the way it was dealing with school violence cases, and also that it has been able to investigate and conclude a number of cases in the stipulated period of time - 90 days of suspension. However, education stakeholders disagreed. Department spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said while the issue of violence at schools was a concern, the number of cases was decreasing. He said the number of outstanding cases was not large when compared with the fact that there were 2.8 million teachers and 110000 pupils in the province. However, more worrying, he said, was the brutality with which the crimes were committed. Mahlambi said in a report presented to department officials on Friday that there were only 63 outstanding cases being investigated by the department against its teachers and pupils. Education stakeholders have warned that violence is rife at schools, so much so that suspending the perpetrators, be it teachers or pupils, did not seem enough to end the problem. The issue of corporal punishment arose again after the recent suspension of a teacher at Siyamukela High School in Newcastle who allegedly poured hot water on six pupils for arriving late. While the DA has described the incident as “the most shocking act of discipline, if found to be true”, the IFP recently pleaded with the government to address the root cause of violence at schools. “Imagine him (the teacher) pouring hot water into the pupils’ ears, not only one, but six of them. If the allegations are true, then one wonders what kind of a teacher this is, and what kind of parent he is to his own children,” Mahlambi said. He said the alleged recent bullying attack on a pupil at a school in the Zululand region, in a video circulated on social media, where a schoolgirl punched and kicked another pupil on the ground and pulled her underwear until it snapped, was another example of the gravity of school violence. Commenting on the Siyamukela High School teacher, Sadtu provincial secretary Nomarashiya Caluza said if found to be true, then the teacher’s actions would be wrong no matter what the pupils did. Caluza said while the union was tasked with the responsibility of representing this teacher, the problem was tricky. “If you look at these outrageous incidents, you can see that there is more to it. It’s extreme violence, and whether committed by a pupil against another, or a teacher against a pupil, or a pupil against a teacher, one wonders what went wrong. “We believe that there may be psychological contributing factors. And in that case, the problem becomes a societal matter. Teachers need support,” she said. Daily News