Durban – MARIE Govender had just cut vegetables ahead of her Purtassi prayer when she was told her son, Shaun, had died. He had been stabbed. Eleven years earlier, Govender experienced a similar tragedy. “On Friday, my son Shaun’s best friend called my eldest son Noel, who was at home. Noel was under the impression that the friend was calling him to join him at the pub down the road. Suddenly, Noel got quiet and ran out of the house. He returned home later and told me that Shaun was dead. I could not believe it,” said Govender, 68. “Shaun had called me earlier to inform me that he was still at work and would return home later. He wanted to know if he should buy fruit for the Purtassi prayer on Saturday but I told him not to worry as we would buy fresh fruit the following morning. Then I was told that he was dead.” Purtassi is a month-long fast observed by Tamil and Telugu-speaking communities to cleanse the mind and the body. The fast is dedicated to the Hindu deity Maha Vishnu, known as the preserver, and the prayers are conducted on Saturdays. According to Govender, Shaun, 35, had just arrived in Isipingo and was walking along Phila Ndwandwe Road on his way home when he was robbed and stabbed. She said her son managed to get to the pub on Inwabi Road, where he saw his friend. “His friend is always at the pub and he went there for help. He called out his friend’s name and when the friend turned around, he saw Shaun fall.” Govender said Shaun worked as a tow truck driver and had lost his job during the lockdown. He got a new job two weeks ago as a driver at an insurance company in Clairwood. “Shaun is my youngest son. In 2009, I lost my middle son. He was also in the tow truck industry and was shot. He survived the shooting but his kidney was damaged. Although he underwent dialysis, he later died. Now, 11 years later, I have to say goodbye to a second son. It’s not fair.” Shaun’s wife, Nikita Govender, said they were married for two years. “He was helpful and respectful. Shaun was part of the bhajan group at the Isipingo Shree Siva Subramoney Temple and at the Illovo Shree Maha Vishnu Temple.” She said before he called his mother, he called her. “He told me that after the prayer on Saturday, he would take me out to lunch. We were planning to move into his parent’s outbuilding. He was so excited. Funny enough, he did not say goodbye to me when he ended the call. He just said ‘love you’.” She said their 1-year-old daughter, Skylar Marie, often looked for her dad. “I look at my baby and I get upset because Shaun loved his daughter and now he won’t get to see her grow up or be with her.” Govender’s funeral is expected to take place later this week. Dhevan Govindasamy, the spokesperson for PT Alarms, said Govender had died at the scene. Captain Nqobile Gwala, KZN police spokesperson, said he had a stab wound on his neck. “The motive for the killing is unknown. A case of murder was opened at Isipingo police station.” POST