Durban - ONE of the 10 vehicles impounded by police, from an alleged car theft syndicate which had been operating along the Durban beachfront, is believed to be a state-owned vehicle. The vehicle, a white Toyota Hilux, had a white and red number plate starting with the letters KZN. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said a case of vehicle theft was opened at Hillcrest police station for investigation. “The complainant alleged that on October 10, 2020, at 12pm, he parked his vehicle on Kassier Road and, on his return, he noticed that his vehicle was stolen,” said Gwala. Meanwhile, further details, vehicle parts and various items were found when police continued investigating the alleged car theft syndicate. The multi-disciplinary operation conducted on Sunday morning was made up of the Metro Police Trio Crimes Unit, Metro Police Dog Unit, Metro Police Drug Task Team, Metro Police Beach Patrols, SAPS Isipingo Vehicle Crime Investigation Unit, SAPS Bomb Disposal Unit and BOSS-UIP Security Specialists were instrumental in arresting seven men, seizing 10 vehicles, car parts, car breaking implements, and other various items.  Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said there were case numbers for seven of the 10 vehicles that were impounded by police during the operation. These vehicles were a white VW Polo (Pinetown), blue Toyota Yaris (Durban), white Toyota Hilux (Hillcrest), white VW Polo (Berea), blue VW Polo (Berea), K2700 Hyundai (Bayview) and red Toyota Cross Etios (Umbilo). From some of the vehicles’ number plates, it appeared they were from Durban and the Eastern Cape. Sewpersad said police had arrested four men with car breaking implements on South Beach. Police seized a Baofeng radio (two-way radio), three T-bars, three spanners, wire hanger, cable wires, eight blank motor vehicle keys, two ignition bones, two ignition overrides, four pairs of gloves, two caps, one small black pouch, registration plates, various computer boxes, a sharpened allen key, two green coloured on board diagnostic readers, a grip pipe wrench, hacksaw, small torch, various screwdrivers, and two pliers. The police were then led to a house in Klaarwater, near Pinetown, and found nine vehicles. One of the vehicles was being worked on by one of the three men who were arrested on the property. Two of the men had tried to flee. “A white BAW was found with 10 ignition bones, six ignition barrels, seven door locks, three vehicle keys and seven computer boxes belonging to various vehicles,” said Sewpersad. Police confiscated six cellphones and R260 000 in cash. They also found a hand grenade (M26), 90 .38 special live rounds, three Sellier & Bellot 12-gauge shotgun rounds and SAPS police uniforms. Daily News