Durban - MORE than 1000 people have been displaced following a fire that engulfed over 400 shacks on Sunday night. Firefighters wrapped up at the New Germany Road informal settlement in Reservoir Hills at about 4am yesterday, the fire having started at 11pm on Sunday. Ward councillor Sagar Singh said it was estimated that about 412 shacks were destroyed, with 1000 adults and 500 children being displaced. He said the eThekwini Municipality’s Disaster Management Unit team were in the area yesterday to help find temporary shelter nearby for those who had been displaced. “I gave the disaster management team the number of affected homes and people. Many people had their identity documents destroyed while others lost their chronic medication. “I did ask the disaster management team for arrangements to be made with Home Affairs to assist, and for those who lost their medication to be helped as well. We’ve asked for food and clothes for the displaced families too. One person was injured and taken to hospital,” said Singh. Durban Fire Division Commander Ntuthuko Mathe said the man, who sustained third degree burns all over his body, was taken to Addington Hospital for medical attention. He said residents on the scene accused the intoxicated man of starting the fire. But Mathe said it was not a candle that started the fire at the informal settlement, because it was electrified. “Residents believed the man’s shack was the source of the fire. They thought he could have dropped something on the floor which started the blaze,” said Mathe. He said once on the scene, it took about an hour to contain the fire and by 2am it was under control. “However overhead electrical boxes and wires presented a challenge to us. These were exploding in the fire, which was dangerous, especially with the material that the shacks are made of. Once these stopped exploding we were able to dampen down everything and by 3.45am we were wrapping up.” Mathe said a number of other house fires in the region saw a delay in his team getting backup. “We had to deploy other regions to help.” eThekwini Municipality spokes- person Msawakhe Mayisela said meals for the displaced people for the next few days would be provided by NGOs. Daily News